
PROCEEDINGS OF THE 
FLORIDA STATE 
HORTIC ULTURAL 
SOCIETY for 1910 


PUBLISHED BY THE SOCIETY 






















































PROCEEDINGS 

OF THE 

TWENTY-THIRD ANNUAL 

MEETING 

OF THE 

FLORIDA STATE 
HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY 

HELD AT 

ORLANDO, MAY 17, 18, 19, AND 20, 1910 



Compiled By The Secretary 
Published By The Society 






































CONSTITUTION. 


Article i. This organization shall be known as The Florida State Horti¬ 
cultural Society, and its object shall be the advancement of horticulture. 

Article 2. Any person may become a member of the Society by subscrib¬ 
ing to the Constitution and paying one dollar. Any person may become a Life 
Member of the Society by subscribing to the Constitution and paying ten dollars. 

Article 3. Its Officers shall consist of a President, three Vice Presidents, 
Secretary, Treasurer, and Executive Committee of three, who shall be elected by ballot at each annual meeting. After the first election, their term of office shall begin on the first day of January following their election. 

Article 4. The regular annual meeting of this Society shall be held on the second Tuesday in April, except when otherwise ordered by the Executive Com¬ 
mittee. 

Article 5. The duties of the President, Vice Presidents, Secretary and 
Treasurer shall be such as usually devolve on those officers. The President, Sec¬ 
retary and Treasurer shall be, ex-officio, members of the Executive Committee. 

Article 6. The Executive Committee shall have authority to act for the 
Society between annual meetings. 

Article 7. The Constitution may be amended by a vote of two-thirds of the members present. 


BY-LAWS. 


1. The Society year shall be co-extensive with the calendar year, and the an¬ 
nual dues of Members shall be one dollar. 

2. All bills authorized by the Society or its Executive Committee, for its legitimate expenses, shall be paid by the Secretary’s draft on the Treasurer, O 
K.’d by the President. 

3. The meetings of the Society shall be devoted only to Horticultural topi'’ ~ 
from scientific and practical standpoints, and the Presiding Officer shall rule c. " 
of order all motions, resolutions and discussions tending to commit the Society to partisan politics or mercantile ventures. 































































Florida State Horticultural Society. 


OFFICERS ELECT FOR 1910: 


PRESIDENT : 

H. HAROLD HUME, Glen St. Mary. 


vice presidents: 

t 

W. C. TEMPLE, Winter Park; H. B. STEVENS, DeLand; B. F. CHILTON. 

« * 

New Smyrna. 


SECRETARY: 

E. O. PAINTER, Jacksonville. 


TREASURER: 

W. S. HART, Hawks Park. 


executive committee: 

P. H. ROLFS, Gainesville; E. S. HUBBARD, Federal Point; G. L. TABER, 

Glen St. Mary. 

President, Secretary and Treasurer, ex-officio. 








Standing Committees. 


Method of Packing and Shipping Citrus 
Fruits .—E. P. Porcher, Cocoa, Fla.; 
E. S. Williams, Fort Pierce, Fla; 
James S. Crutchfield, Jacksonville, 
Fla. 

Method of Handling Citrus Groves .— 
H. G. Nicherson, Winter Haven, Fla.; 
G. M. Wakelin, Tavares, Fla.; David 
Scott, Arcadia, Fla.; Chas. Bemender- 
fer, White City, Fla.; Fred S. Dewey, 
Boynton, Fla. 

Ornamentals .—C. D. Mills, Jacksonville, 
Fla.; J. C. Bates, Lake City, Fla.; 
Henry S. Pennock, Jupiter, Fla. 

Irrigation —Walter Drenner, Orlando, 
Fla.; T. F. Holbrook, Lakeland, Fla.; 
Dr. H. E. Stockbridge, Atlanta, Ga. 

Vegetables .—C. K. McQuarrie, Gaines¬ 
ville, Fla.; S. Littlefield, Little River, 
Fla.; J. A. Gladden, Hastings. 

Peaches and Deciduous Fruits. —W. L. 
Floyd, Gainesville, Fla.; A. C. Haynes, 


DeLand, Fla.; J. E. Futch, Alachua, 
Fla. 

Pineapples. —C. G. White, Haiku, Maui 
Island, Hawaii; J. B. Leatherman, 
Delray, Fla.; E. V. Blackman, Miami, 
Fla. 

Fertilizer. —A. W. Blair, Gainesville, 
Fla.; B. von Herft, New York City, 
N. Y.; R. E. Rose, Tallahassee, Fla. 

Tropical Fruits. —E. N. Reasoner, 
Oneco, Fla.; Mrs. P. H. Rolfs, 
Gainesville, Fla.; John B. Beach, W. 
Palm Beach, Fla. 

Insects and Diseases. —E. W. Berger, 
Gainesville, Fla.; H. S. Fawcett, 
Gainesville, Fla.; J. Schnarr, Orlando, 
Fla. 

Nuts. —W. W. Carroll, Monticello, Fla.; 
C. M. Griffing, Macclenny, Fla.; Jas. 
A. Bear, Palatka, Fla. 





List of Members. 


HONORARY MEMBERS. 


Berckmans, P. J., Augusta, Ga. Gaitskill, S. H., McIntosh, Fla. 

Flagler, H. M., St. Augustine, Fla. Hart, W. S., Hawks Park, Fla. 

Painter, E. O., Jacksonville. 


LIFE MEMBERS. 


Alderman, A. D., Bartow, Fla. 

Allan, Wm., 136 W. 79th St., New York City. 
Andrews, C. W., Chicago, Ill., John Crerat Li¬ 
brary. 

Baltram, Francisco, Monterey, N. L., Mexico. 
Barber, C. F., Macclenny, Fla. 

Bartlett, A. F., St. Petersburg, Fla. 

Bell, J. D., St. Petersburg, Fla. 

Carpenter, G. F., 56 Beck St., Attleboro, Mass. 
Chidester, D. D., Philadelphia, Pa., 2321 Madison 
Square. 

Cook, R. F. E., Leesburg, Fla. 

Conner, O. W., Tangerine, Fla. 

Conner, W. E., New York City, 532 Madison 
Avenue. 

Cresson, W. H., City Point, Fla. 

Crutchfield & Woolfolk, Penn. Produce Bldg., 
21 st St., Pittsburg, Pa. 

Crockett, Mrs. C. B., 124 nth St., Miami, Fla. 
Crosby, J. A,, San Mateo, Fla. 

Cunliff, L. H., East Douglass, Mass. 
Cunningham, A. D., St. Louis, Mo., 421 Olive St. 

Drew, Prof. Wm. L. 13 East Ave., Ithaca, N. Y. 

Ellsworth, W. J., Blanton, Fla. 

« 

Felt, J. P., Emporia, Fla. 

Francis, Chas., Jr., Interlachen, Fla. 

Frink, Aubrey, Winchester, Tenn. 

1 

Gossard, Prof. H. A., Ohio Ex. Sta., Wooster, O. 
Gushee, E. G., Philadelphia, Pa., 2830 W. Lehigh 
Avenue. 

Griffing, C. M., Jacksonville, Fla. 

Haden, Mrs. Florence P., Cocoanut Grove, Fla. 
Harris, E. K., East Palatka, Fla. 

Harris, Mrs. A. C., East Palatka, Fla. 


Harvey, S. S., 99 Prado, Havana, Cuba.. 
Hastings, H. G., Atlanta, Ga., 35 Marietta St» 
Hempel, H. A., Gotha, Fla. 

Henricksen, H. C. Havana, Cuba. 

Hentz, W. B., City Point, Fla. 

Herff, B. von, New York City, 93 Nassau St.,. 
N. Y. 

Hernandez, Pedro M., San Fernando, 108 Cien- 
fuegos, Cuba. 

Hopper, I. A., Orlando, Fla. 

Hume, H. Harold, Glen St. Mary, Fla. 

Hubbard, E. S., Federal Point, Fla. 

r 

Johnston, S. W., DeLand, Fla. 

1 

Kerr, Dr. George, 325 Armstead Ave., Hampton,. 
Va. 

Krome, W. J., Marathon, Fla. 

Lauman, G. N., Ithaca, N. Y. 

Lewis, Dr. Fred D., Buffalo, N. Y., 188 Franklin 
St. 

Livingston, Dr. Alfred, Jamestown, N. Y. 
Loehr, F. C., Hull, Fla. 

Love, Ozor T., 6239 Fairview St., Germanton, 
Pa. 

Manville, Mrs. A. H., Orange City, Fla. 

Martin, Wm. A., Sebastine, Fla. 

Merritt, Dr. J. C., Orlando, Fla. 

Milligan, J. W., Apopka, Fla. 

Mills, C. D., Jacksonville, Fla. 

Miller, H. K., Monticello, Fla. 

Mote, E. H., Leesburg, Fla. 

McCarty, Mrs. C. T., Eldred, Fla. 

McCarty, B. K., Eldred, Fla. 

McCarty, D. T., Ft. Pierce, Fla. 

Norvenland Fruit Co., San Juan, P. R. 

Nehrling, H., Gotha, Fla. 




10 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Olsen, Olaf, White City, Fla. 

Painter, Mrs. E. O., Jacksonville, Fla. 

Pike, W. N., Floral Park, N. Y. 

Prang, Mrs. Nettie M. G. 

Porcher, Mr. E. P., Cocoa, Fla. 

Porcher, Mrs. E. P., Cocoa, Fla. 

Racey, C. H., Waveland, Fla. 

Raulerson, J. Ed., Lily, Fla. 

Rickeston, Mrs. M. C., Grayfield, Cumberland 
Island, Fernandina, Fla. 

Robinson, M. F., Sanford, Fla. 

Rolfs, Prof. P. H., Gainesville, Fla. 

Rolfs, Mrs. P. H., Gainesville Fla. 

•Smith, C. E., Bogwalk, Jamaica. 

Sneden, W. C., Waveland, Fla. 

Sparvath, R. M., Englandsgade 37, Esbjerg, Den¬ 
mark 


Stanton, F. W., Philadelphia, Pa., 14 Vine St. 
Stevens, Edmund, Verga Alta, P. R. 

Strauss, J. E., Lealman, Fla. 

Stuart, L. N. Montemorelos, L. N., Mexico. 

Taber, G. L., Glen St. Mary, Fla. 

Trelease, Wm. P., Missouri Botanical Garden, 
St. Louis, Mo. 

Temple, W. C., Winter Park, Fla. 

Temple, Mrs. W. C., Winter Park, Fla. 

Waite, F. D., Palmetto, Fla. 

Wester, P. J., Miami, Fla. 

White, C. G., Haiku, Maui Island, Hawaii. 
Williams, E. S., Fort Pierce, Fla. 

Wilson, L. A., Jacksonville, Fla. 

Woodroffe, Auckland, New Zealand. 

Worcester, C. H., Pomona, Fla. 


ANNUAL MEMBERS. 


Adams, F. H., Dunedin, Fla. 

Adams, J. Q., Geneva, Fla. 

Adams, Mrs. G. W., Thonotosassa, Fla. 1 
Adams, G. W., Thonotosassa, Fla. 

Alden, J. C., Akron, Ohio. : j 

Alden, B. H., DeLand, Fla. 

Almond, J. D., Ft. Pierce, Fla. 

Amsden, E. W., Ormond, Fla. 

Ancoin, K. A., Bartow, Fla. 

Anderson, Robt., 35 W. LaCrosse, Lansdowne, 
Pa. 

-Ankeney, R. V., Ankona, Fla. 

-Arnold, R. A., Orlando, Fla. 

-Arnold, T. E., DeLand, Fla. 

-Atwater, W. M., Quay, Fla. * 

/Atwater, Mrs. W. M., Quay, Fla. i 

Ayers, Dr. W. McD., Cincinnati, Ohio. j 

J 

Back, E. A., Orlando, Fla. ! 

Ball, Chas. E., Tampa, Fla. 

Barr, J. M. Jr., Palmetto, Fla. 

Bardin F. F., Lake City, Fla. 

Barnes, T. J., Survey, Fla. 

Barton, Cresswell M., Jacksonville, Fla. 

Bass, M. M., Glen St. Mary, Fla. 

Bates, J. C., Lake City, Fla. 

Bayliss, C. W., Grand Island, Fla. 

Beach, John B., W. Palm Beach, Fla. 

Bear, Jas. A., Palatka, Fla. 

Beers, J. J., Emporia, Fla. 

Berger, E. W., Gainesville, Fla. 

Berger, Mrs. E. W., Gainesville, Fla. 

Beidler, D. J., Orlando, Fla. 

Bessey, Ernst A., Care Louisiana State Universi¬ 
ty, Baton Rouge, La. 

Bemenderfer, Chas., White City, Fla. 


Bentley, M. E., St. Augustine, Fla. 

Blackman, W. F., Winter Park, Fla. 

Blair, A. W., Gainesville, Fla. 

Blake, Ellis G., Lake Helen, Fla. 

Blake, Mrs. Ellis G., Lake Helen, Fla. 

Blakely, W. P., Ocoee, Fla. 

Birley, H. C., Lake City, Fla. 

Blanton, E. B., Brandon, Fla. 

Boardman, F. N., Orlando, Fla. 

Bode, E. C., Care Chicago Examiner, Chicago, 
Ill. 

Bodman, S. E., St. Petersburg, Fla. 

Boone, C. A., Orlando, Fla. 

Bourley, A. H., Leesburg, Fla. 

Bouton, C. B., 135 Adams St., Chicago, Ill. 
Bragg, C. L., Box 802 Jacksonville, Fla. 

Branch, E. A., Daytona Beach, Fla. 

Bristol, Mary, DeLand, Fla. 

Brown, A. H., Manavista, Fla. 

Brown, A. L., Eustis, Fla. 

Britt, John J., Eldred, Fla. 

Bruce, G. Duncan, Winter Haven, Fla. 

Bryan, W. E., Belleair, Fla. 

Bryson, R. Hy Winter Haven, Fla. 

Buckler, W. A., 52 Ingalls Bldg., Cincinnati, O. 
Budd, H. S., Leesburg, Fla. 

Bunde, Chas. H., Belleair, Fla. 

Burbank, M. S., Miami, Fla. 

Burch, E. H., 2348 Columet Ave., Chicago, Ill. 
Burleigh, E. S., Tavares, Fla. 

Burleigh, Mrs. E. S., Tavares, Fla. 

Cadman, Mrs. W. E., Narcoossee, Fla. 

Campbell, Hugh, Weaton, Ill. 

Campbell, A. E., Roseland, Fla. 

Cannon, E. E., Gainesville, Fla. 



FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


11 


Carter, Mrs. D. A., Merritt, Fla. 

Carlton, Geo. S., Pine, Fla. 

Carroll, W. W., Monticello, Fla. 

Cellon, F. M., Gainesville, Fla. 

Chamberlain, E. W., Tangerine, Fla. 

Chase, Sydney O., Sanford, Fla. 

Chase, Joshua C, Jacksonville, Fla. 

Chapman, J. T., Plymouth, Fla. 

Chilton, B. F., New Smyrna, Fla. 

Church, F. L., Cocoanut Grove, Fla. 

Christiancy, Cornelius, Port Orange, Fla. 
Christiancy, Mrs. Cornelius, Port Orange, Fla. 
Christiancy, Master Cornelius, Port Orange. 
Churchill, Wm. K., White City, Fla. 

Clark, G. H., Daytona, Fla. 

Cline, R. L., Arcadia, Fla. 

Cobb, T. M., Corsicana, Tex. 

Colby, Wm. J., Ormond, Fla. 

Collison, S. E., Gainesville, Fla. 

Connor, Ii. C., Bartow, Fla. 

Compton, J. H., Clermont, Fla. 

Conant, E. E., Bartow, Fla. 

Conant, C. F., Bartow, Fla. 

Conrad, J. B., Glenwood, Fla. 

Condit, E. N., Daytona, Fla. 

Corbett, Walter P., Jacksonville, Fla. 
Copeland, W. R., Quay, Fla. 

Crossman, S. S., Orlando, Fla. 

Coryell, Wm. L., Orlando, Fla. 

Corrigan, J. F., Saint Leo. Fla. 

Cooper, H. C., Jacksonville, Fla. 

Currier, Osceola, Cocoa, Fla. 

Carney, Jno. L., Lake Wier, Fla. 

Dade, L. T., Orange City, Fla. 

- Dade, Mayo, DeLand, Fla. 

Davidson, Col. H. P., Highland Park, Ill. 
Denison, U. A., Winter Haven, Fla. 

Derby, J. H., Sandy Hill, N. Y. 

DeForest, Mrs. H. L., Sanford, Fla. 

Dewey, Fred S., Boynton, Fla. 

Dickinson, Miss Frances, Orange City, Fla. 
Dickinson, Miss Melissa, Orange City, Fla. 
Dickinson, J. M., Narcoossee, Fla. 

Dickinson, Alfred, Gainesville, Fla. 

Dickson, H. H., Orlando, Fla. 

Dickinson, Edward, Box 771, Tampa, Fla. 
Dommerick, L. F., Maitland, Fla. 

Donnelly, J. B., Palm Beach, Fla. 

Donnelly, J. P., Mt. Dora, Fla. 

Dow, Mrs. Harriet Mellio, Satsuma Heights, Fla. 
Drake, T. P., Yalaha, Fla. 

Drennen, Walter, Orlando, Fla. 

Dri§coll, W. J., Arcadia, Fla. 

Duchardt, G., Geneva, Fla. 

Earle, Mrs. W. H., Tangerine, Fla. 

Edwards, Wm., Zellwood, Fla. 

Elwes, D. G. Cary, Conway, Fla. 

Engelken, M. von., Champaign, Ill., 307 E. John 
St. 


Evans, Miss Martha, Winter Haven, Fla. 

Evens, T. H., Orlando, Fla. 

Farley, J. F., Malabar, Fla. 

Fawcett, G. L., Mayaguez, Porito Rico. 
Fawcett, H. S., Gainesville, Fla. 

Fawcett, Mrs.. H. S.j Gainesville, Fla. 

Fee, Fred, Fort Pierce, Fla. 

Fee, W. J., Ft. Pierce, Fla. 

Felt, Floyd P., Emporia, Fla. 

Feinberg, J. L., Orlando, Fla. 

Fleming, H., Kissimmee, Fla. 

Floyd, W. L., Gainesville, Fla. 

Floyd, B. F., Gainesville, Fla. 

Foster, Chas. B., Calloosa, Fla. 

Finnie, A. A., Coleman, Fla. 

Fitzgerald, T. E., Daytona, Fla. 

Ford, Miss Inez M., Jacksonville, Fla. 
Franklin, J. D., Mt. Dora, Fla. 

Fugazzie & Co., Cincinnati, O. 

Fuller, W. R., Tampa, Fla. 

Futch, J. E., Gainesville, Fla. 

Gaines, J. B., Leesburg, Fla. 

Galloway, Miss Laura, Okahumpa, Fla. 

Galloway, J. R., Okahumpka, Fla. 

Garrett, L., Orlando, Fla., R. F. D., No. 1. 
Garvey Bros., Ft. Myers, Fla. 

Gaston, M. M., Punta Gorda, Fla. 

Geiger, R. L., Rockledge, Fla. 

Giles, Jas. L., Orlando, Fla. 

Gillett, M. E., Tampa, Fla. 

Gladney, J. A., Hastings, Fla. 

Goodrich, Chas., Caruth'ersville, Mo. 

Gowen, C. S., Crescent City, Fla. 

Grant, A. J., Dunedin, Fla. 

Graves, H. S., Gainesville, Fla. 

Greiner, J. C., Citra, Fla. 

Grisham, J. K., Thonotosassa, Fla. 

Green, E. M., Palmetto, Fla. 

Green, Mrs. H. E., Lotus, Fla. 

Green, S. B., Daytona, Fla. 

Gore, Mahlon, Orlando, Fla. 

Gurney, L. H., Merritt, Florida. 

Haden, Florence P., Cocoanut Grove, Fla. 
Hagstrom, L. E. A., Pierson, Fla. 

Hagstrom, Fred, Pierson, Fla. 

Hallott, H. H., Mexico City, 20 Puerrte de Al¬ 
varado, Mexico. 

Hammond, Benjamin, Fishkill-on-Hudson, N. Y. 
Hampton, B. F., Gainesville, Fla. 

Hamm, H. O., Palatka, Fla. 

Hardy, C. R., Boynton, Fla. 

Hardee, S., Rockledge, Fla. 

Hardee, W. R., Jensen, Fla. 

Harner, J. H., Fruitland Park, Fla. 

Harney, W. R., (Chase & Co.) Jacksonville, Fla. 
Harrington, A. B., Winter Haven, Fla. 

Harrison, M. C., Palmetto, Fla. 

Harper, J. M., Survey, (Lee County), Fla. 


12 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Hatch, Willis C., Malabar, Fla. 

Haynes, A. C., DeLand, Fla. 

Hazen, D. E., Thonotosassa, Fla. 

Heath-cote, W. E., St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Hemingway’s London Purple Co., New \ork, N. 

Y., 133 Front St. 

Henderson, F. O., Gainesville, Fla. 

Henry, A. M., Tallahassee, Fla. 

Heritage, H. K., 121 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Herman, J. B., 38 Sou. Union St., Rochester, 
N. Y. 

Hess, W. E., Mayaguez, Porto Rico. 

Hibbard, E. C., Daytona Beach, Fla. 

Hildrup, Emma J., Welaka Fla 

Hilliard, Chas. M., Gulf Refg. Co., Tampa, Fla. 

Hinkley, B. F., Avon Park, Fla. 

Hinkley, B., Avon Park, Fla. 

Hobbs, W. A. H., Cocoanut Grove, Fla. 
Holland, B. F., Bartow, Fla. 

Hion, E. L., DeLand, Fla. 

Hood, Samuel C., Orange City, Fla. 
Hoolbrook, T. F., Lakeland, Fla. 

Hoyt, R. D., Clearwater, Fla. 

Howell, J. L., Dunedin, Fla. . . 

Huber, Joseph, 603 Race St., Cincinnati, O. 
Hume, Harold H., Glen St. Mary, Fla. 

Hume, Edward G., Glen St. Mary, Fla 
Hume, Mrs. H. Harold, Glen St. Mary, Fla. 
Humphrys, A. S., Indianola, Fla. 

Inman, F. W., Winter Haven, Fla. 

Inman, S. C., Florence Villa, Fla. 

Ives, S. E., Orlando, Fla. 


Jernigan, Mrs. W. P., Glen St. Mary, Fla. 
Jernigan, Mr. W. P., Glen St. Mary, Fla. 
Jewell, Hon. W. H., Orlando, Fla. 

Johnson, M. E., Palatka, Fla. 

Jones, W. H., Orange Bend, Fla. 

Jones, Cyrus, Bowling Green, Fla. 


Keck, Irving, Bowling Green, Fla. 

Kendig, John, 1220 Market St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Key, W. W., Box 802, Jacksonville, Fla. 

Kilgore, Jas. E., Largo, Fla. 

Kilgore, S. H., Largo, Fla. 

Knox, L. B., Bulow, Fla. 

Knox, Donald B., Bulow, Fla. * 

Klemm, Richard, Winter Haven, Fla. 

Klemm, Mrs. Marie, Winter Haven, Fla. 

Kroon, Jesse, New Smyrna, Fla. 

King, Wm., Avon Park, Fla. 

Kresse, Chas. G., Grand View on Hudson, N. Y. 


Lamb, A. M., Palmetto, Fla. 
Lamb, J. A., Palmetto, Fla. 

Lauback, P. F., Orlando, Fla. 
Leatherman, J. B., Delray, Fla. 
Leech, Daniel, Winter Haven, Fla. 
Leonard, George, Hastings, Fla. 
Lewis, W. J., Limona, Fla. 
Littlefield, S. C., Little River. Fla. 


Livingston, Alfred T., Jamestown, N. Y. 
Longley, N. H., St. Petersburg, Fla. 1 
Longley, Mrs. N. H., St. Petersburg, Fla. 

Long, A. L., Gainesville, Fla. 

Lovell, C. P., Jacksonville, Fla. 

Loveless, J. S., Clarcona, Fla. 

Luthge, H. D., New Smyrna, Fla. 

McCless, Mrs. H. A., Ormond, Fla. 

McClelland, W. S., Eustis, Fla. 

McComb, James Jr., 227 Laura St., Jacksonville, 
Fla. 

McDaniels, H. B., Orlando, Fla. 

McDaniels, H. C., Orlando, Fla. 

McDougal, Robert, 319 Postal Telegraph Bldg., 
Chicago, Ill. 

McIntyre, James, Miami, Fla. 

MicLean, Wm. C, Grenada, Miss. 

McNeill, Mr. E. H, Orlando, Fla. 

McEwen, C. S., Orlando, Fla. 

McQuarrie, C. K, Gainesville, Fla. 

Mace, L. P., Lake Helen, Fla. 

Mace, J. P., Lake Helen, Fla. 

Mattison, W. W., Emporia, Fla. 

Matheny, C. Woodburn, Sarasota, Fla. 

Mann, E. M., Care R. G. Dun Co., Chicago, Ill. 
Manz, Adolf. Eustis, Fla. 

Maris, Mrs. Geo. L., Sanford, Fla., R. F. D. No. 1 
Maris, Geo. L., Sanford, Fla., R. F. D No. 1. 
Mathis, Miss Minnie, Glen St. Mary, Fla. 

Mead, Theodore L., Oviedo, Fla. 

Meislahn, Mr. H., Clarcona, Fla. 

Merrell, Mrs. Herman, St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Merrell, Mr. Herman, St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Middleton, W. C., St. Augustine, Fla. 

M,orse, Fred’k S., Miami, Fla. 

Morton, P. S., Dunedin, Fla. 

Moses, Wallace R., West Palm Beach, Fla. 
Montgomery, Chas., Buena Vista, Fla. 

Moulie, E., Jacksonville, Fla. 

Morrison, Horace, Leesburg, Fla. 

More, C. V., Walton, New York. 

Moore, Capt. W. R., Geneva, Fla. 

More, Miss Carrie, Eldred, Fla. 

Moore, Nathan L. C., Venice, Fla. 

Mouser, W. H., Jacksonville, Fla. 

Munger, J. E., Lakeland, Fla. 

Murphy, T. W., Largo, Fla. 

Myer, A. Van, Larkin, Fla. (Dade County). 

Newsom, John A., Box 802, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Newton, C. M., Orlando, Fla. 

Negus, C. R., Viking, Fla. 

Nickerson, H. G., Florence Villa, Fla. 

Niles, Mrs. L. D., New Smyrna, Fla. 

Niles, Mr. L. D., New Smyrna, Fla. 

Nixon, L. R., Homestead, Fla. 

Nordmann, Fred., New Smyrna, Fla. 

Northrup, F. A., Supt., Consolacion Del Sur.,. 
Cuba. 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


13 


O’Brien, W. S., Thonotosassa, Fla. 

O’Neal, W. R., Orlando, Fla. 

Overstreet, M. O., Orlando, Fla. 

Osborne, F. B., Sutherland, Fla. 

Palmer, R. A., Bradentown, Fla. 

Palen, Mrs. P. E., Haines City, Fla. 

Palen, Peter E., Haines City, Fla. 

Pennock, Henry S., Jupiter, Fla. 

Pennock, Mrs. Henry S., Jupiter, Fla. 

Pelton, J. E., Potash, La. 

Penny, N. O., Vero, Fla. 

Penny, Mrs. N. O., Vero, Fla. 

Peterson, Miss U. C., Pierson, Fla. 

Peterson, Miss Iola, Pierson, Fla. 

Peters, Geo. T., Geneva, Fla. 

Perry, Francis W., Alva, (Lee County), Fla. 
Perrin, R. G., Winter Haven, Fla. 

Pfyffer, John, Pulaski, Ind. 

Phillips, Samuel K., Matteawan, N. Y. 

Phillips, P., Orlando, Fla. 

Pierson, N. L., Pierson, Fla. 

Pierson, D. L., Oakland, Fla- 
Pink, Chas., Orlando, Fla. 

Player, Harry, Tampa, Fla. 

Porcher, Arthur G., Cocoa, Fla. 

Postlet ; hwaite, H., 'San Jose, Cal. 

Praither, G. C., >St. Petersburg, Fla. 

Quinby, Thos. B., Gainesville, Fla. 

Raulerson, K. B., Ft. Pierce, Fla. 
Radcliff-Cadman Bros., Narcoossee, Fla. 
Reasoner, E. N., Oneco, Fla. 

Reed, John, Indianola, Fla. 

Richardson, E. L., Avon Park, Fla. 

Richardson, Wm. C., Tampa, Fla. 

Richtmann, W. O., jSatsuma Heights, Fla. 
Ringdahl, G. A., White City, Fla. 

Robb, S. L., Gainesville, Fla. 

Robins, Mrs. Raymond, 1437 West Ohio St., Chi¬ 
cago, Ill. 

Robinson, W. E., Palmetto, Fla. 

Robinson, C. A., Eden, Fla. 

Robinson, Mrs. C. A., Eden, Fla. 

Roberts, A., Dade City, Fla. 

Roberts, Mrs. A., Dade City, Fla. 

Rollins, C. A., Thonotosasisia, Fla. 

Rose, Mrs. R. E., Tallahassee, Fla. 

Rose, R. E., Tallahassee, Fla. 

Rou, S. F., Lowell, Fla. 

Rou, Mrs. S. F., Lowell, Fla. 

Rowland, Mr. J. S., Orlando, Fla. 

Street, A. W., Ormond, Fla. 

Sadler, J. H., Oakland, Fla. 

Sadler, O. W., 115 Market St., Johmstown, Pa. 
Sampson, F. G., Quincy, Fla. 

Sampson, Mrs. F. G., Quincy, Fla. 

Sample, A. M., Fort Pierce, Fla. 

Sartorius, L. G., Clearwater, Fla. 


Scabinger, J. J., Delray, Fla. 

Schnarr, J., Orlando, Fla. 

Schnobel, John, Gainesville, Fla. 

Scott, J. M., Gainesville, Fla. 

Scott, David, Arcadia, Fla. 

Sellmer, Mrs. M. P., Farmington, Del. 

Sellmer, Chas., Zellwood, Fla. 

Shanibarger, P. M., Pine Castle, Fla. 

Shepherd, F. W., Winter Park, Fla. 

Shepherd, S. P., Winter Park, Fla. 

Sheffield, J. C., Lake City, Fla. 

,Sherwin-Williams Co., Newark, N.J. (I. R. 

Stout.) 

Shyrock, W. P., New Smyrna, Fla. 

Sims, Capt. B. M., Ocoee, Fla. 

Simon, Abe, Monticello, Fla. 

Simpson, R. C., Monticello, Fla. 

Sinclair, Andrew, Ormond, Fla. 

Sistrunk, Mr. S. T., Ocala, Fla. 

Skinner, Mr. L. B., Dunedin, Fla. 

Smith, W. A. Orlando, Fla. 

Smith, C. D., Mt. Dora, Fla. 

Snow, Geo. E., Eastlake, Fla. 

Snyder, A. S., St. Petersburg, Fla. 

Sperry, E. F., Orlando, Fla. 

Stanley, 'Geo. L., Ashtabula, Ohio. 

Stevens, H. B., DeLand, Fla. 

Stevens, Mrs. H. B., DeLand, Fla. 

Stillman, H. Y., Daytona, Fla. 

Stillman, Fred A., Daytona, Fla. 

Stockbridge, H. E., Atlanta, Ga. 

Stouder, H. G., Eldred, Fla. 

Strout, H. T., Fruitland Park, Fla. 

Stubenrauch, A. V., Washington, D. C. 

Sundell, Rev. J. F., Lake Mary, Fla. 

Swingle, Prof. Walter T., Dept, of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C. 

Switzer, W. A., Box 611 , Tampa, Fla. 

Taber, Mrs. G. L., Glen St. Mary, Fla. 

Talton, E. H., DeLand, Fla. 

Taylor, T. A., Emporia, Fla. 

Tilden, L. W., Winter Garden, Fla. 

Tillinghast, B. F., Crescent City, Fla. 

Tischler & Co., P., Jacksonville, Fla. 

Thompson, Mrs. C. H., Winter Haven, Fla. 
Thompson, C. H., Winter Haven, Fla. 

Thomas, E. A., Arcadia, Fla. 

Townsend, C. Marot, 500 N. Broad St., Phila., 
Pa. 

Troxler, T. W., Ocala, Fla. 

Tucker, R. M., Orange City, Fla. 

Tussey, H. H., Wayne, Pa. 

Vans Agnew, Frank, Kissimmee, Fla. 

Vernon, Prof. J. J., Gainesville, Fla. 

Vuillaume, Victor, Herradura, Cuba. 

Warner, S. C., Palatka, Fla. 

Warner, H. G., Palatka, Fla. 

Wakelin, G. M., Tavares, Fla. 


14 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Wakelin, Mrs. G. M., Tavares, Fla. 

Wakelin, Amos, Land Title Bldg., Phila., Pa. 
Walker, G. P., Belleair, Fla. 

Waite, M. B., Washington, D. C. 

Watts, B. F., Leesburg, Fla. 

Watts, P. B., Palmetto, Fla. 

Weeks, J. M., Punta Gorda, Fla. 

Wegemann, A. H., Watertown, Wis. 

White, Miss Lilia M., Dupont, Fla. 
Whitehurst, E. E., Dunedin, Fla. 

White, Herbert C., DeWitt, Ga. 

Whipp, C. Lesslie, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Wichtendahl, Alfred, Orlando, Fla. 

Westlake, J. Willis, Lake Helen, Fla. 
Wightman, L., P. O. Box 576, Tampa, Fla. 
Wills, Francis L., Sutherland, Fla. 

Williams, J. A,. Cocoanut Grove, Fla. 

Williams, H. S., Rockledge, Fla. 

Wilmshursit, H. J., DeLand, Fila. 

Willis, R. F., Palmetto, Fla. 


Wilson, J. M. Jr., Kissimmee, Fla. 

Wilson, W. N,. Gainesville, Fla. 

Wilson, C. H., Clermont, Fla. 

Wilson, L. A., Clermont, Fla. 

Withers, I. N., Lady Lake, Fla. 

Wolfe, J. B., Houston, Texas. 

Wolfe, R. L., Glen St. Mary, Fla. 

Wood, Mr. James, 1911 E. 89th St., Cleveland, O. 
Worcester, C. H., Pomona, Fla. 

Wright, W. W., Orlando, Fla. 

Wyckoff, Jno. S., Citra, Fla. 

Yothers, W. W., Orlando, Fla. 

Young, Albert B., 1032 Niagara St., Buffalo, N. 
Y. 

Yowell, N. P., Orlando, Fla. 

Young, R. H., Haines City, Fla. 

Zimmerman, M., Ormond, F^a. 


Proceedings of the Twenty-third 
Annual Meeting of the Florida 
State Horticultural Society 


For the Twenty-third time, The Flor¬ 
ida State Horticultural Society assembled in annual convention, at the Gem City of 
Orlando, with headquarters at the San 
Juan Hotel. 

Orlando has entertained the Horticul¬ 
tural Society on two other occasions and this time the good people showed themselves no less hospitable and endeav¬ 
ored to make the Horticulturalists feel thoroughly at home and gave them such entertainment as the program and time allotted would allow. The special fea¬ 
ture of the entertainment was the auto¬ 
mobile ride in and around Orlando through the country to Winter Park and 
Maitland. 

The drive on the hard surfaced road between magnificent oaks and alongside of large orange groves was a very enjoy¬ 
able one. 

The party surprised Mr. W. C. Tem¬ 
ple at his Alabama Grove, but he was equal to the occasion and had the pleasure of showing some of the leading 
Horticulturists in the country a growth on Trifoliate stock that was even a sur¬ 


prise to the nurserymen who furnished it. The visit to the Winter Park packing house, which is said to be the largest in the world was of special interest in view of the fact that some of the methods for handling and washing fruit were entirely new in Florida. 

The visit to Rollins college where the members were heartily received by Prof. 
Blackman and his good wife was among the bright spots of the day. After a long ride and a walk through the packing house the cooling refreshments handed out by the young ladies of the college were very acceptable and heartily enjoyed by all. 
Many of the members had heard of Rol¬ 
lins college, but never knew before of the extent of its grounds, its numerous beau¬ 
tiful buildings and splendid equipment. 
All the members joined in hearty thanks to the president, faculty and the students for the very enjoyable hour spent within the walls of the college grounds. 

The regular routine of the meeting was carried through without very much change from the program. One of the very important things that took place at 









16 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


the meeting was the naming of the place where the American Pomological Society would hold its next meeting. It will be remembered that at the Daytona meeting a committee was appointed to invite the 
American Pomological Society to hold its next bi-ennial meeting in Florida. The committee was successful in presenting their invitation and it was left to the Hor¬ 
ticultural Society to state where the next meeting should be held. 

Jacksonville and Tampa both put in bids, but Tampa won out as she had three delegates on the floor and they made promises that could not be overlooked and the Society voted on Tampa, knowing that she has never failed to keep her word. The meeting will convene on Jan¬ 
uary 31, 1911. 

The next place of meeting for the 
Florida State Horticultural Society will 


be in Jacksonville, where it will hold its regular annual session. The Horticul¬ 
tural Society, however, is expected to participate in the Tampa meeting and to be on hand to see that the American Po¬ 
mological Society members are well taken care of and are shown what Florida can produce. 

It is hoped and believed that the meet¬ 
ing at Tampa will be the largest and best attended and most interesting of any meeting previously held by the American 
Pomological Society, but whether it is or not is going to depend in a great measure on how our Florida members turn out and help. 

All of the members when leaving Or¬ 
lando did so with grateful hearts to the good people there for the kind hospitali¬ 
ty and entertainment extended to them. 


Minutes 


FIRST DAY. 

Evening Session. 

1. Call to order. President H. Har¬ 
old Hume. 

2. Opening prayer. 

3. Address of welcome—Gen. Wm. H. 
Jewell. 

4. Response—W. C. Temple. 

5. President’s annual address—H. 

Harold Hume. 

6. Introduction of question box. 

7. Social hour. 


SECOND DAY. 

Morning Session. 

1. Address, “Horticultural and Agri¬ 
cultural Education in Florida.”—Prof. 
P. H. Rolfs, Gainesville. 

2. Methods of Handling Citrus Groves 
—Mr. E. S. Williams, Ft. Pierce; Mr. C. 
H. Thompson, Winter Haven. 

3. Discussion. 

4. Hardy Citrus Fruits—Prof. Wal¬ 
ter T. Swingle. 

5. Discussion. 




FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


17 


Afternoon Session. 

1. Transportation and Storage of Cit¬ 
rus Fruits—Prof. A. V. Stubenrauch, 
Department of Pomology, Washington, 

D. C. 

2. Discussion. 

3. Address by Prof. Waite—Some 
Fungicides. 

4. Discussion. 

5. Irrigation—Mr. M. E. Gillette, 
Tampa; Mr. J. P. Campbell, Jackson¬ 
ville. 

6. Appointment of Committee on Final 
Resolutions: Mr. H. E. Stockbridge, At¬ 
lanta, Ga.; Mr. L. B. Skinner, Dunedin, 
Fla.; Mr. H. Fleming, Kissimmee, Fla. 

Evening Session. 

1. Whitefly Investigation, with stereop- 
ticon views—Dr. E, A. Back, Orlando. 

2. Discussion. 

3. Appointment of Auditing Commit¬ 
tee: Mr. E. N. Reasoner, Oneco; Mr. H. 
Guy Nickerson, Florence Villa; Mr. M. 

E. Gillette, Tampa. 

4. Whitefly Investigation—Prof. E. 
W. Berger, Gainesville. 

5. Discussion. 

6 . Controlling Whitefly—Mr. James 
E. Kilgore, Largo. 

Morning Session. 

1. Ornamentals—Mr. W. J. Ellsworth, 
Jessamine; Mr. T. L. Mead, Oviedo; Dr. 
H. Nehrling, Gotha. 

2. Stem End Rot of Citrus Fruits— 
Prof. H. S. Fawcett, Gainesville. 

3. Discussion. 

4. Studies—Mrs. N. M. G. Prange, 
Jacksonville. 

5. Blue Stone in Citrus Culture—Prof. 
B. F. Floyd, Gainesville. 


6. Discussion. 

7. Report of Auditing Committee. 

8. Report of Secretary. 

9. Report of Treasurer. 

10. Report of Executive Committee. 

11. Method of Packing and Shipping 
Citrus Fruits—Mr. L. B. Skinner, Dun¬ 
edin. 

12. Discussion. 

13. Address by Mr. R. P. Burton—- 
Florida Citrus Exchange, Tampa, Fla. 

14. Discussion. 

15. Appointment of Committee on 
Legislation—Mr. W. C. Temple, Winter 
Park; Capt. R. E. Rose, Tallahassee; 
Dr. F. W. Inman, Winter Haven; Mr. 
R. P. Burton, Tampa. 

16. Resolution presented by Prof. P. 
H. Rolfs that the word “advisory” be 
Struck out of Article 5 of the Constitu¬ 
tion. 

17. Election of officers. 

18. Selection of next place of meet¬ 
ing. 

19. Visit to Temple Packing House and lunch at Rollins’ College. 

Evening Session. 

1. Observations on Pecan Culture— 
Mr. H. K. Miller, President Ga. Fla Pe¬ 
can Growers Association. 

2. How Shall we Market Pecans 
—Prof. H. Harold Hume, Glen St. 
Mary. 

3. Combinations Adapted to Pecan 
Production—Mr. W. W. Carroll, Mon- 
ticello. 

4. Discussion. 

5. Report of Committee on Statistics. 

6. General Discussion. 

7. Final Resolutions. 


Address of Welcome. 


Gen. Wm. H. Jewell. 


Mr. President , Ladies and Gentlemen , 

Members of the Horticultural Society 

of Florida and of the Nut Growers' 

Association of Georgia and Florida : 

Orlando is proud and glad to welcome you here. We open to you the gates of our city and the doors of our homes and of our hearts. We hope that your stay with us will be profitable and pleasant. 
We are sure it will be profitable, and we sincerely hope that it will be pleasant. 

We remember that you were with us some years ago when we were barely emerging from that great disaster that almost seemed to mean ruin to us, when the chief source of our income and pros¬ 
perity was swept away in a night, and we suffered great loss of property as tvell as of our prosperity and of many of our people who were forced to go else¬ 
where to seek a livelihood, but we pre¬ 
sent to you a new and transformed Or¬ 
lando and Orange county today; we pre¬ 
sent to you one of the most beautiful, 
pleasant and healthful cities in one of the most beautiful and health¬ 
ful states of this Union. We 

show you our improved streets 

almost throughout the whole extent of our city and our principal streets, as you have noted, paved with the best modern material now known, vitrified brick, with many miles of sidewalks that seem like 


walking upon the mosaic floors of bar¬ 
onial halls or princely palaces, with our residential streets lined with umbrage¬ 
ous oaks. We show you one of the fin¬ 
est school buildings in the State, only re¬ 
cently erected but now too small for our necessities. We show you the lots and fields, once vacant and barren, now filled with homes; comfortable, pleasant and many of them even handsome, and we hope to show you something o*f the im¬ 
proved country roads 'that we have built, 
and to take you to see our suburb, Win¬ 
ter Park, and that magnificent model packing house built by that noble-spirited gentleman, Mr. W. C. Temple, your vice president, and we hope to show you that splendid institution for educational pur¬ 
poses known as Rollins College. We hope to show you these things and many more, which will add to your pleasure and be profitable as well. 

We are proud and glad to have with us such a body of men and women as compose your organization; people who are devoting themselves largely to the promotion of the material interests of this great State. 

While the great disaster to which I re¬ 
ferred swept away our orange groves, 
we show you today that Orange county is raising more oranges than ever before; 
that it is the largest orange growing county in the State of Florida ; that it 



FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


19 


has more orange trees than any other county in the State; but that we do not depend today as we did of yore upon any one thing for our living and pros¬ 
perity, for we can show you some of the finest truck gardens you ever saw, not only in Sanford but in Orlando and Or¬ 
ange county. We hope and expect, by aid of the labors of your organization, to double and treble and vastly increase 


the product of those groves and of those gardens. 

Again we welcome you to Orlando, and 
I am sure, although Orlando is not a town of “gush,” although we do not boast nor claim that we have a boom, we make no great promises, but what we say, we mean, and what we do, we do with all our hearts, and in that spirit we welcome you to the city of Orlando. 








Response to Address of Welcome. 


W. C. Temple. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen of 

Orlando : 

We have listened with pride and ap¬ 
preciation to 'the very eloquent remarks of the mayor of this beautiful city, and we thank you for the cordial welcome. 

The mayor said we had met at Orlando before. That is true; we heard that re¬ 
mark last year when we were selecting a meeting place for this year’s conven¬ 
tion. There were other cities anxious to have us come to them, and we were ac¬ 
cused of getting the Orlando habit. 

We are glad Orlando is not tired of having us nor that we are acquiring the 


Orlando habit. We feel when we come to Orlando that we meet the cordial spir¬ 
it and warm heart of the true southern welcome. Other cities make us welcome, 
to be sure, and do everything in their power to make our stay with them pleas¬ 
ant, but Orlando is different, somehow. 
The people here are so truly glad to have us; they seem “home-folks” like, and make us feel like “home-folks.” 

And, members of the Florida Horticul¬ 
tural Society, you must know that we are going to be entertained by the most cor¬ 
dial people of the most beautiful city of the gem county of the finest State of the most glorious nation under the sun. 



President’s Annual Address 


H. Harold Hume. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

Upon this, the occasion of our third meeting to be held in Orlando, it may be interesting to take a general survey of our fruit plantings, their nature and ex¬ 
tent. That our present position in the world’s horticulture has been reached only after great efforts on the part of many workers, led on by hope, encour¬ 
aged by example and backed up by dogged determination, is apparent, even to the most casual observer, and from their work, and the heritage which is ours, we may learn some lessons of last¬ 
ing worth. 

When we pause to carefully consider the status of the fruit-growing indus¬ 
tries in this country, we cannot but be impressed both with their diversity and their magnitude. Owing to the extent of our territory north and south, east and west, the variations in altitude from sea- 
level to the tops of our highest moun¬ 
tains, our diverse soil-types, and climatic peculiarities, a larger number of differ¬ 
ent fruits can be and are grown on the mainland of the United States than are usually found within the confines of any other single country. 

Not only have our native fruits, in many important instances, been improved and brought into cultivation, but tribute 


has been laid upon every land which could add to the riches of our pomology. 

Grapes and apples from Europe, plums from Japan and Europe, pineapples from 
South America, figs from Smyrna, or¬ 
anges from the shores of the Mediterra¬ 
nean, China and Japan, mangoes from In¬ 
dia, avocadoes from Mexico and the West 
Indies, pears from France, England and the Orient, Kaki persimmons from 
China, Japan and Korea, the chestnut from Europe and Japan, the peach from 
China and elsewhere, bush fruits (rasp¬ 
berry, gooseberry and others) from Eu¬ 
rope, the banana from southern Asia, and many more from many, many different places. Every nook and corner of the earth from the land of the rising to the land of the midnight sun has given us of its fruits; the bleak, wind-swept steppes of Siberia and the steaming jungles of 
India have added to our lists. We have laid toll upon the island's beyond the seas and the oases of the desert. From bar¬ 
ren hillsides and fertile valleys, from dense forest and open prairie, from tiny island and vast continent have come these strangers to our shores to become a part of our national wealth. 

So nearly have we been able to meet the requirements of these immigrants that most of them have found a congenial home in some part of our land. In ad- 


22 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


dition to this, the larger and more im¬ 
portant fact that these importations of foreign varieties have had and are hav¬ 
ing a value far beyond this direct and immediate use, must not be overlooked. 
They have served and are serving as the basis for further improvements, and when blended with other strains by cross¬ 
ing, the resulting fruits have, in many cases, far surpassed in value the varieties imported. These new fruits are adapted to conditions of soil, climate and use into which the foreign varieties would not fit. 
Hence, we have at this time, varieties of direct foreign introduction, varieties of straight domestic origin and varieties combining the parental characteristics of the two. Sectional differences, peculiar¬ 
ities and adaptabilities have been worked out until we can say with reasonable cer¬ 
tainty what strains of fruits will succeed in given areas. The peach orchards of 
New York and other northern states are planted with trees of the Persian and northern Chinese races, while the Flor¬ 
ida peach grower now plants his ground with Peen-to and Honey types. The vineyardist of the Chautauqua grape belt will be found growing northern Ameri¬ 
can grapes, such as Concord, or Niagara, 
or Delaware. The grape grower of the eastern Carolinas plants Muscadines and the California grower gives his attention to the wine and raisin grapes of Europe. 
The nut grower of the Pacific slope plants 
English or Persian walnuts and al¬ 
monds, if in the cotton belt he plants pe¬ 
cans, and in the northern states, chest¬ 
nuts and shell-barks. The California fig growers have at length succeeded with the Smyrna fig; while the grower of the 
Gulf coast will probably have to content 


himself, as he does now, with figs of an entirely different class. The date palm has been introduced and has found a con¬ 
genial home in Arizona and southern Cal¬ 
ifornia, Pineapples have thus far suc¬ 
ceeded only in Florida. Japan plums have succeeded over a considerable area but probably reach their greatest perfection on the Pacific coast. There too, in Oregon and California, is the land of the prune. 
In the central northwestern states, the native American plum has supplied the standard sorts for planting, and the Rus¬ 
sian apple seedlings have opened up a new apple field. Orange culture has reached its greatest development in our own State, in California and is now com¬ 
ing into prominence around the Gulf coast country. Of the newer fruits, the mango and avocado have great possibil¬ 
ities and open up interesting fields for further development. And we might go on calling attention to the different kinds of fruit which now engage the attention of our horticulturists. Truly our pomol¬ 
ogy is diversified. 

But turning from this side of the question to another, let us note that no other land produces fruit in such abun¬ 
dance, and I dare say, that in no other country outside the tropics does it enter into the everyday sustenance of the people to such an extent. Our vineyards and orchards are planted over immense areas. 
Fruit trees are set out by hundreds and by thousands. Vast areas of plain and valley and mountain slope are given over to the culture of single fruits, and as our population increases, greater efforts must necessarily be put forth to supply the increasing demand, for our people are a fruit-consuming people. Our products 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


23 


are marketed by carloads and trainloads. 
Think of our out-put of 45 or 50 thou¬ 
sand carloads of citrus fruits from the 
Gulf and the Pacific, 'trainloads of peaches from the orchards of Georgia, 
Texas, Michigan and Ohio, of strawber¬ 
ries from the Atlantic seaboard, of ap¬ 
ples from Colorado, New York and Ore¬ 
gon, of grapes from California, of pecans from the south and walnuts from the west. Truly these many strangers from many lands, the offspring of world-old races have amply repaid the care and at¬ 
tention they have received at our hands. 

Millions are invested in this branch of culture, vast auxiliary industries have sprung up and are dependent upon the fruit crops of the country. Think of the immense amount of labor employed in healthful occupation, of the great reve¬ 
nues gained by transportation companies, 
of the large amounts of wood, iron and paper used in packing and preparation for market; and we gain some slight idea of what fruit growing means to the coun¬ 
try as a whole. 

In no other land is fruit so abundant, 
in no other is it so cheap. Here it is within reach of even the very poor. More and more our domestic output has sup¬ 
plied our needs, and in proportion to the amount consumed, our imports in many directions have fallen off materially. We have been able to build up an export trade of no mean proportions and our resources of soil and brain and brawn are by no means exhausted. There are greater de¬ 
velopments yet to come, and looking down the dim vistas of the future, who can say to what proportions the pomology of America may yet attain? 


How has all of this been attained? By what paths have we reached our present state? What forces have been at work, 
and who have been the workers ? It is not our purpose to attempt to answer these questions in detail, but I do desire to direct your attention to one particular individual, the amateur fruit grower. To him belongs a measure of honor, a meed of praise so full that had his work been performed in other avenues of life, his¬ 
tory would have told of his achievements, 
and monuments would have been raised to his memory,—but since his tasks have been performed in what we have mis¬ 
called the lowlier walks of life, there has been no poet to sing his praise. But, 
who is he? What is he? What has he done ? When some day the history of 
American fruit growing is written as I 
hope it may be, we shall learn more of him, and of what we owe to his efforts. 

If I were to define the amateur fruit grower, I could not do better than to paraphrase the words of Prof. Hale: “An amateur is a man who works in the field of horticulture because he cannot help it. 
Because he would rather do such work than anything else in the world. And, 
therefore, cares little for hampering tra¬ 
ditions or for difficulties of any kind.” 

The impelling force is sheer love of his work. No thought of largess is his, 
love of plants to him is his reward. 

To him we owe the major portion of our finest fruits. Interested in his chosen field, he has been ever quick to note varia¬ 
tions in the plants grown under his watchful eye. The superiority of one over another, or maybe over all others, 
has not passed unnoticed. When plants were brought from foreign lands, his was 


24 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIET Y. 


the hand which received them and gave them kindly care, and when new fruits were brought to his notice, whether in our own country or in another, he has always been anxious to secure and test them. 

The tendency in our country is to limit our plantings to a comparatively small number of varieties, and this small num¬ 
ber is woefully small, when we compare it with the thousands of varieties which from the beginning have appeared in va¬ 
rious catalogues and lists. It is also small when we compare it with the number of varieties planted by the old world cultur- 
ist. Ait the present time, as in every oth¬ 
er period of our pomology, new varieties are being constantly introduced, and so well are these placed before the public with illustrated and descriptive matter, 
that many might be led to plant largely without sufficient knowledge of their mer¬ 
its. Moreover while one variety may be good in a certain given locality, its range of adaptability may be limited, and no one can say over what territory a variety will succeed, until it has actually been tested on the soil. Herein the amateur has performed an invaluable service. New things attract his attention, he purchases them, or secures them, plants and cares for them. After a number of years’ trial, 
under the vicissitudes of climate, of cold and heat, of rainfall and dry weather, he, 
more than any one else, is capable of passing upon the merits of the newer things. Not his, the attitude of the cold commercialist, whose only thought is of the gains he makes on his trees; and yet, 
the amateur oftAimes prevents this same commercialist from falling into errors 


which would be disastrous to the success¬ 
ful outcome of his business operations. 

Among our amateur growers, we may count not only our most worthy plant in¬ 
troducers and testers but also' our most noted plant breeders and improvers. The service which such men as Prince, Down¬ 
ing, Rogers, Bull, Budd and Stuart have rendered American horticulture in their several fields of activity cannot well be over estimated. Who> can count the val¬ 
ue of the work done by Sand ford, Ed¬ 
mund H. Hart, Phelps, Richards, Brown and Adams in the development of the fruit industries in this State? Their names will live long in the annals of 
Florida horticulture. 

It has, however, not been along these lines alone that they have rendered val¬ 
uable service. The fruit grower, to be successful, must wage war successfully against all the forces which oppose him. 
His is no one-sided study; and the ama¬ 
teur has played his part and played it well, in the control of plant diseases and insects. When new lines of fruit were introduced, their propagation, cultivation and general care require attention. These details have been mastered. Again when the fruits were ready to place upon the markets he has done his part in bringing them before the public. No phase of his work has been left untouched. He has given of himself and of his time without stint. All honor to the work he has done in the development of the enormous fruit industries of our country. Florida has had her full quota of amateur fruit-grow¬ 
ers, and their combined ability has not been surpassed by the combined ability of the fruit growers of any other region in our country. And today, the same 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


25 


spirit is abroad in the State. May it long remain. With it, our fruit trees and plants are living vital objects to draw forth from their caretakers the best that is in them. Without it, our occupation has become dead and inert, it has lost its best, vital uplifting force for man and plant. Not only does man cultivate his fruit trees, but if he approaches his work in the right spirit and in the spirit with which the amateur fruit-grower has al¬ 


ways approached his work, his fruit trees cultivate him. Thus we live for the best: 
that is in our work, and in so living, win from it a reward far above the monetary gain it brings us. And when we fold our cloaks about us, to lie down to our re¬ 
pose, may it be with the feeling that we have lived not unto ourselves but for the betterment of an occupation that means so much to our State, and which has. 
meant so much to us. 


Horticultural and Agricultural Education in Florida 


Prof. P. H. Rolfs. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

Once in a while, we like to take a gen¬ 
eral survey; to get on the housetop, as it were, and look around over the country and see what is to be seen. We want to spend a few minutes this morning in this kind of general survey, then we will get down to details and study the details more closely than this paper deals with them. 

EDUCATION NECESSARY FOR A STABLE 
DEMOCRACY. 

Our present system of education had its origin in an aristocratic form of gov¬ 
ernment. It, therefore, partook much of the form of government under which it was fostered. In an aristocratic govern¬ 
ment it mattered not how many toiled in¬ 
cessantly, SO' long as the chosen few were privileged to follow the bent of their own inclinations to the fullest extent. Under such a form of government, a few ex¬ 
tremely talented individuals arose, espec¬ 
ially along those lines of study that did not displease the rulers. The great masses of humanity, however, were not thought worthy of attention. It was really con¬ 
sidered dangerous for them to obtain the rudiments of an education. The very foundations of a democracy rest on the assumption that each one of the electorate body has at least a reasonable understand¬ 


ing of those questions of government necessary to the fullest development of the individuals who make up the democ¬ 
racy. 

Our own government is only a limited democracy, and in some of the “machine- 
ridden” districts it is extremely limited. 
We are, in fact, to a large extent, govern¬ 
ed by an office-holding oligarchy, which differs from a monarchy only in that the electorate may at irregular intervals re¬ 
move the reigning oligarch, and replace him by another. These conditions will continue to exist as long as the electorate body remains incapable of knowing its needs and expressing them at the polls. 
Great holdings of property are not, to my mind, incompatible with a perfect democ¬ 
racy; nor are great variations in intellec¬ 
tual attainments antagonistic to a democ¬ 
racy. But it is impossible for a pure democracy to exist unsullied unless the majority of the electorate is capable of understanding and voting intelligently on both local and national questions. As long as we have an uneducated electorate, either one 
“boss” or another will rule; but, as the electorate becomes more educated, the boss retreats, and finally quits the field. 
Our own government has given us a striking illustration of how an almost perfect organization may be perverted to 



FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


27 


selfish ends. But, by the education of the masses, first one redoubt and then anoth¬ 
er has been taken from 1 the office-holding aristocracy. Formerly, the electorate was not allowed the right to select the Pres¬ 
ident of the United States, but now this is practically conceded, although the con¬ 
stitution of the United States reserves the right to an electoral college, and we still go through the empty form of voting for the members of this electoral college. 
In many of our States, the U. S. Sena¬ 
tors are voted for in the primaries or at the general election, and the State Leg¬ 
islatures then go through the form of electing these Senators. 

THE DIFFICULTY A FUNDAMENTAL ONE. 

The difficulty of education is a deeper one than mere dollars and cents. You can’t drive an American—some can be bought, but many more may be led. Our ideals, however, are toward a democracy. 

Naturally, we should say that since the rural population is unable to send its children to school, then by increasing the earning capacity of the rural adult, the difficulty will be removed, and all of our children will be put into the schools. Let us examine the public school statistics of a State in which the earning capacity of the average adult is sufficient for compar¬ 
ative ease, and where children are not permitted to labor in factories. Massa¬ 
chusetts will furnish us with a good illus¬ 
tration. 

In Massachusetts, according to the 
69th census, there were: 

513,000 children of school age; 

498,000 children attending school; 


404,000, or 78 per cent., in average attendance; 

45,000, or 8 per cent., attending high school (about one-fourth of those that shoud be there).i 

These figures show us that the difficulty is a fundamental one, and not a practical one (the want of wealth). 

In the whole United States, only 13 
per cent, of our school population have reached the last grade in the high school, 
or a little more than a third of those that should be there. 

The absence of wealth is a potent fac¬ 
tor for non-attendance on schools, but it is not the fundamental difficulty. This difficulty lies in the fact that our present school curriculum is faulty. We are not educating for the efficiency of the indi¬ 
vidual. The whole common school course, 
beginning in the primary grades, through the grammar school, and especially in the high school, educates the individual for professional life, which comprises only 3 
per cent, of our population. To the other 97 per cent, of our population the studies are purely non-vocational. 

Think of it, ladies and gentlemen; 97 
per cent, of our people (including 44 per cent, rural population) are required to accept a purely non-vocational course, or none at all, simply that 3 per cent may be fitted for their vocation. It is really a compliment to our present system that so large a percentage of our children are taking the studies in the higher grades at all. Our present graded and high schools have shaped their courses in such a way as to enable their graduates to enter a college or university without examina¬ 
tion. They are given a direct through 


28 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


ticket, on a limited express train, which makes no stops at flag or way stations; 
while the through passengers number on¬ 
ly one-tenth of one per cent, of the whole. 
We have built splendid terminal facilities, 
but those who wish to stop at way sta¬ 
tions have to roll off like chunks of coal from a flat-car. In other words our pres¬ 
ent curriculum forces the teachers to bend all their energies toward making college or university candidates; while their efforts toward making common men and women, the great mass of our popu¬ 
lation, have to be purely incidental. Our present grammar and high schools are fashioned after the old academy, whose legitimate successor they can in no wise claim to be. (In passing, I may be per¬ 
mitted to say that our University has broadened its course during the last five years, so as to include instruction along the vocational lines that include about three-fourths of our population. It will take time, however, for the graded schools to fit boys for entering the Uni¬ 
versity.) 

THE WORLD-WIDE ADVANCE. 

It is not so many years ago that all ed¬ 
ucation, science, and other advancement of the human race were circumscribed and localized in more or less restricted communities. Some communities ad¬ 
vanced far ahead of their times along cer¬ 
tain lines. As an illustration of this, we have the civilization of Greece, which had its philosophers, poets, and to some extent scientists, before the Christian era. Much of the good work was lost by the subse¬ 
quent subjugation of these people. The great valley of the Euphrates, and the 


valley of the Nile, and other places may be called to mind where engineering feats of wonderful proportions were car¬ 
ried on six to ten thousand years ago, 
the results of which are still apparent. In later times, however, the science and the art of this work were completely lost. It has been only in recent centuries that the science of engineering has again reached the height attained by these old and al¬ 
most prehistoric nations. So long as these communities or nations remained isolated, they were able to develop along certain lines, frequently to the neglect of all other lines of education and upbuild¬ 
ing. Their advance only lasted until the opportune time came for a more barba¬ 
rous or more fierce and warlike nation to conquer them and destroy utterly their literature and their art. A striking and very similar illustration may be taken from America. The great pyramids erected by the Aztecs to the sun £nd the moon, are still wonders of the continent. 
These Aztecs had a high civilization, and must have also developed in science to a high grade, from the fact that they have shown an accurate knowledge of engin¬ 
eering work, and an accurate knowledge of the calendar as we know it today. 
Their literature, science and agriculture was swept away by the Spanish conquer¬ 
ors. The Aztecs themselves were sub¬ 
jugated and compelled to become servants of an alien race whose civilization, sci¬ 
ence, and literature, they were forced to adopt, whether it suited them or not. 

At the present time we are living in an age when time in the past is practical¬ 
ly annihilated, making it possible by means of books for us in a single hour 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


29 


to traverse the whole vast extent of time from the beginning of recorded data to the present. The telephone and tele¬ 
graph are annihilating distance. By means of the telegraph, we are today closer to the Philippine Islands and more inti¬ 
mately connected with them than we were seventy-five years ago with New 
York or Chicago. 

WORLD-WIDE COMPETITION. 

We are likewise much more affected both morally and financially by what is done even in remote parts of the earth, 
than ever before. To be a successful cabbage grower in Florida, the horticul¬ 
turist must know the extent of the Nova 
Scotia crop, the extent of the Danish crop, and the extent of the German crop, 
and of course must have full information as to the extent of the cabbage product of the whole United States. This is one illustration of the many that might be cited. 

We are today vitally affected in citrus growing by the output from distant parts of the world. We look upon Cali¬ 
fornia as our competitor, and one with whom we have to reckon. Too many of us, however, forget that Arizona, Mex¬ 
ico, Texas, Jamaica, Porto Rico, and the 
Mediterranean region are also competi¬ 
tors. While we have developed the art of producing citrus fruit to such an ex¬ 
tent that, with the aid of the tariff, we need not fear the introduction of fruit from the Mediterranean growers, we still find them competitors when we wish to ship fruit to Europe, to Canada, or to other places outside the United States. 
I might mention that our nursery men are 


finding Japanese nurseries competing se¬ 
riously for the market of citrus trees. 

As pineapple growers in Florida, we consider Cuba and Porto Rico as our strong competitors, and think of them as being alone in the field. This, however, 
is not entirely correct. Hawaii ships a large amount of fruit to the Pacific Coast 
States. The Malayan Peninsula com¬ 
petes strenuously for the market in canned pineapples. Yet the Malayan 
Peninsula is located on the other side of the world. 

The Florida potato grower must take into consideration the crop that is produced in practically all of the United States, 
and Europe, and the competition of Ber¬ 
muda. Nearly ten years ago the over¬ 
production of the crop for the fancy mar¬ 
ket resulted in two very bad years for the Florida potato growers. Since that time the demand has grown rapidly, and now it appears as though it would be al¬ 
most impossible to produce enough po¬ 
tatoes to satisfy the market. But this is only apparent, since the production of only a few carloads more than the mar¬ 
ket will quickly absorb would result in a serious slump of prices. I found, for ex¬ 
ample, that the Hastings market was around $3.00 f. o. b. per barrel, and the 
Chicago market was 25 cents per bushel. 
The Chicago buyers were buying Flori¬ 
da potatoes because they had a fancy market. I might illustrate with the avo¬ 
cado crop. We can sell a certain amount of avocados in the market at quite a fancy figure. It really does not make much difference what we charge. The higher the price the more people seem to be anxious to get them, but if we have 


30 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


half a crate more than the market de¬ 
mands, that extra half crate will not bring ten cents. As it is, we have learn¬ 
ed not to over supply the avocado mar¬ 
ket, but keep the supply just even with the demand. 

The younger generation of us will have to compete strenuously with the fruit out¬ 
put of South America and Africa. Al¬ 
ready these countries are sending their product into the markets of Europe, and thereby curtailing the source of consump¬ 
tion for our products. The United States has already seriously felt the inroads in the European market made by the Aus¬ 
tralian meats and other animal products. 
Argentina now stands second in the acre¬ 
age of corn. The report for 1908 gives her nearly seven million acres. Capital from the United States is flowing in a torrent into Mexico. A few years ago the 
United States consul at Mexico City told me that there was upwards of $500,000,- 
000 of United States capital invested in 
Mexico. Most of this, however, was go¬ 
ing to develop the mines, though agricul¬ 
ture was following rapidly in the amount of United States capital that was being absorbed. Large areas in Mexico have been and are being planted to citrus fruits. 
By tariff legislation it may be possible to keep these fruits out of the markets of the United States, but such an artificial barrier cannot keep them from going into 
Canada and other places where our fruits now find a good market. In cer¬ 
tain sections of Central America large areas are being planted to citrus orchards, 
and it is purely a question of developing transportation facilities to bring these in¬ 
to active competition with our fruits. 


The transportation facilities are being rapidly developed, and will be greatly stimulated as the time for the opening of the Panama canal approaches. (Of course we raise a superior article, but to millions of consumers an orange is an or¬ 
ange and nothing more.) 

All of this brings us face to face with the fact that we are only a small part of the world movement. A moment ago I 
called your attention to the fact that in the past these upward movements took place in isolated centers. By means of our literature we have annihilated the past, and by means of electricity we are annihilating distance. Now, in the place of progressive movement being localized, 
it is present in all nations. Even static 
Turkey and Persia are being affected by the educational movement of today. The leaders in scientific thought today must know what the results are of the investi¬ 
gations in other laboratories, whether lo¬ 
cated at Ceylon, Tokyo, San Francisco, 
Chicago, New York, Edinburgh, Berlin, 
St. Petersburg, or any other place on the globe. Should Dr Koch make an impor¬ 
tant discovery in connection with the sleeping sickness of interior Africa, on the next day all the newspapers around the earth would announce the fact. While the earth is no smaller than it was ten thousand years ago, man’s power over matter has increased so immeasurably that he is in reality brought into daily and almost hourly connection with even the remotest portions of the world. 

At first it might seem as though this was a long distance from citrus growing. 
To understand our present situation, 
however, it is of the highest importance 


FLORIDA iSTATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


31 


for us to understand the world move¬ 
ments. We are in such immediate com¬ 
munication with all of our competitors, 
and our competitors are in so close touch with us, that unless we understand the whole situation and take advantage of the opportunities as they occur, we shall be hopelessly outclassed in the competi¬ 
tion. The serious question with us to¬ 
day is, what are we doing and are we doing all we can to better our conditions, 
to increase our power of producing crops and to reduce the cost of production of the same. We all know that the cost of production has increased greatly in the last fifteen years. Fertilizers have in¬ 
creased in cost, labor nearly doubled in price, transportation has been but slight¬ 
ly reduced, and the purchasing power of the money we receive in return for our products has decreased nearly 50 per cent. We are in a decade of high prices but cheap money. 

We are now face to face with a situa¬ 
tion that demands the most earnest and energetic study of our problems, both from a technical and a practical stand¬ 
point. 

INCREASE OF POPULATION. 

Florida was the first place in what are now the United States to receive colo¬ 
nists from Europe. For various reasons that need not be enumerated at this time, 
the development of Florida has been ex¬ 
tremely slow. At the present time our area is probably the most sparsely set¬ 
tled of any State east of the Mississippi. 
Various causes have contributed to bring this about. We are now, however, re¬ 
ceiving immigrants from almost all parts 


of the United States, the main reason for this being the fact that good, available farm lands in other parts of the United 
States have been practically all taken up. 
The last West has been conquered. Con¬ 
sequently the pioneers who have no more 
West in which to locate, must turn in an¬ 
other direction to secure cheap and suit¬ 
able lands. A large number of the peo¬ 
ple from the overcrowded sections of the 
Middle West and West, are pouring into the immense unsettled portions of the 
Northwest Territory of Canada. Enough of our citizens have already moved across the border to make a population equal to that contained in Florida. In other words, the United States has already con¬ 
tributed at least one State to the develop¬ 
ment of Canada. Many of our citizens are not satisfied, however, to leave the protection of the flag under which they were born and raised, but prefer to seek employment and a livelihood even in far- 
off Florida, which has been represented to them as a place where it is almost im¬ 
possible to live. This movement and un¬ 
rest has its basis in some fundamental condition. The fundamental condition that is confronting these people is the same one that we have to meet here. The population of the United States is now increasing at the rate of a million a year. 
At first thought this would appear to be very encouraging, since it means a mil¬ 
lion people more every year to eat or¬ 
anges; but oranges are not absolute ne¬ 
cessities, and bread comes first. With this more fierce struggle for subsistence comes a corresponding decrease in oppor¬ 
tunity for buying those things that are absolutely necessary. 


32 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


EDUCATIONAL MOVEMENT IN FLORIDA. 

We are vitally interested today in knowing what factors are at work for the improvement of Florida conditions. We must improve our conditions, or be left far behind in this world-wide movement. 
If our methods of handling our citrus groves are not better next year than they are this year, we will find ourselves hope¬ 
lessly outclassed by this severe and se¬ 
rious competition. In our democratic form of government, we cannot expect a dictator to arise and drive us forward to proper handling and to proper thinking. 
The upward movement must be through the upward movement of at least a large proportion of the agricultural people. Our leaders may legislate and prescribe laws for our guidance, but unless these laws receive an intelligent support, they will be practically dead letters on the statute books. This may be strikingly illustrated by the laws on our statute books pertain¬ 
ing to the organization of a county hor¬ 
ticultural commission. These commis¬ 
sions when properly organized have all the power necessary to carry out any rea¬ 
sonable line of work in any county. Yet so far as we know, not a single county has taken effective advantage of this law. 

AGRICULTURE IN RURAL SCHOOLS. 

Some lines of work are being carried out which will in time give us much bet¬ 
ter agricultural and horticultural condi¬ 
tions in the State. One of these move¬ 
ments is the teaching of the basic princi¬ 
ples of agriculture and horticulture in all the rural schools of the State. Naturally, 
the introduction of agriculture has met with the same opposition that the intro¬ 


duction of grammar and physiology met with in our common school curriculum. 
It is no more likely that the teaching of agriculture from an elementary text-book in the country school will make a trained agriculturist, than that the teaching of grammar in the country school would produce a finished poet or prose writer, or that the teaching of physiology in country schools would produce an accomplished family physician. The teaching of the grammar has, however, added immense¬ 
ly to the accuracy of speaking and writ¬ 
ing English; and the study of physiology has done much toward preserving health and discounting quackery. 

CORN INSTITUTES. 

Institutes for young people have been held in a number of the counties of the 
State this year. This brings practical farming education to the youth who will soon be the bread earner. To enumerate all of these would require more time than would seem practicable in a short speech today. In Alachua county, as an illustra¬ 
tion, we held to March 26th, 14 of these institutes, with a total attendance of 955 
persons. (Since the above summary was made, several more institutes have been held, carrying the total number over a thousand.) Of this 955 above mentioned, 
626 were school pupils, 189 were men, 
and 140 women. This shows a lively in¬ 
terest in agricultural education in the 
State. Not only do the young people at¬ 
tend, but interest in the work is aroused among the older people. At these insti¬ 
tutes the lectures of the day were intro¬ 
ductory to the final object. The object of the lecturers was to instruct the pupils 


FLORIDA >STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


33 


in agricultural work and at the same time distribute packages of selected seed corn. 
This corn was intended for planting by the pupils, and in the fall contests for the best corn produced will be held, and later there will be a contest in corn judging. 

farmers' institutes proper. 

The Farmers Institute work during the present fiscal year has been carried on rather more vigorously than in any pre¬ 
vious year. Up to May 8, we had held 
114 sessions, scattered from Pensacola on the west, to Miami on the south. We have not visited every county in the State, 
from the fact that certain counties are more wide awake than others, and as a rule, those which make their wants known are the ones which are likely to have them supplied. The total attendance on these institutes will run somewhere in the neighborhood of seven thousand. In this connection I may say that the farmers of the State are probably more active and more insistent than the fruit growers. 
The citrus section which was formerly the progressive section has now become conservative and the farming section pro¬ 
gressive. 

COUNTY FAIRS. 

County fairs are being held in many different counties of the State. They are not always known under the name of fairs, though in substance they amount to the same thing. Santa Rosa, Walton, 
Washington, Holmes, Jackson, Gadsden, 
Leon, Jefferson, Madison, Suwanee, Ma¬ 
rion, Polk and Dade are all confidently looking forward to an exhibition of ag¬ 
ricultural and horticultural products next 


fall and winter. A number of these coun¬ 
ties held fairs last year, and in almost all cases the institution was a financial suc¬ 
cess. From an educational standpoint they were much more successful, how¬ 
ever, than from a financial standpoint. The total attendance upon these institutions would amount to hundreds of thousands. 
These gatherings are very important from the fact that they bring the city more closely in touch with the country. 

THE INTERSTATE FAIR. 

During November of this year will be held the interstate fair at Pensacola. A 
dozen or fourteen counties of Florida and Alabama will be represented. At the interstate fair there will be offered a silver cup trophy for the corn-judging contest and other prizes of magnitude. 

THE UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA. 

The county and State fairs are potent factors in the upbuilding of the agricul¬ 
tural and horticultural interests of the 
State. They come more, however, as an expression of the existing conditions than as a direct effort toward the formu¬ 
lation and carrying forward of definite ideals. This work of leadership and pre¬ 
senting of ideals is to a large extent the mission of the University of Florida. 
Necessarily this institution, since it be¬ 
longs to the people, must adapt itself to the conditions as they are found. It would be a practical folly to attempt to copy or model our institution after that existing in any other State whose conditions were entirely different from those found in 
Florida. Consequently, this institution must blaze its own way. While the ex- 


34 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


perience in other states will be of much service, it can only be used in the way of suggestions. 

THE CORRESPONDENCE COURSE. 

To carry out the ideals of progressive educational work, the University has of¬ 
fered a course of agriculture by corre¬ 
spondence. This has proven to be ex¬ 
tremely popular. Last year the regis¬ 
tration in the course was over 400. This year the registration is about 600, and nine different courses were offered in place of the one that was offered last year. It is intended to continue to of- 
fer these correspondence courses. 

THE CITRUS SEMINAR. 

As an expression of the fact that the institution is attempting to meet the needs of the State, we may cite the case of the 
Citrus Seminar. This gathering was held, not with a view of giving informa¬ 
tion of an elementary character in con¬ 
nection with citrus culture, but to pre¬ 
sent the latest scientific discoveries in connection with this great industry. As the name indicates, no attempt was made to make this Citrus Seminar in any way a formal matter. The lectures were de¬ 
livered in an informal way, and constant questions and interruptions were invited. 
The speakers for the most part were from the experiment station staff. The citrus growers themselves, however, aided very greatly in making the effort a thorough success, in that certain of them volun¬ 
teered to give short talks on specific sub¬ 
jects about which they knew probably more than anyone else. The character of the work of the Seminar was such as 


would have made it of little value to one who was not thoroughly versed in prac¬ 
tical citrus culture. The average at¬ 
tendance on the meetings was 34.7 per session. Twenty-eight persons directly interested in citrus growing in Florida at¬ 
tended the meetings. 

CONCLUSION. 

The conditions under which we find ourselves existing today are very differ¬ 
ent from those that have been experi¬ 
enced heretofore. We are in the midst of a world wide movement,—educational, 
financial, scientific, and political. If its ef¬ 
fects are worldwide, competition is like¬ 
wise worldwide. Our sources of infor¬ 
mation are not limited only by the climate in which citrus fruits will grow. We must know what is happening in every land, not only of the citrus-growing re¬ 
gions, but of the agricultural regions as well. We are more and more interde¬ 
pendent than ever before. As our prob¬ 
lems of production are being solved, our problems of distribution become more severe. Your attention has already been called to the fact that the prices received for our fruit at the present time are not as great as they were fifteen years ago, 
and yet the purchasing power of the dol¬ 
lar which we receive for our fruit has fallen very materially. It therefore be¬ 
comes more and more necessary to cur¬ 
tail the expenses of production, to insure perfect and prompt delivery, and in every manner possible provide for a saving of the waste product. Every tree in the grove must be made to do its full share of work, and all deadbeats ruthlessly de¬ 
stroyed. We must by earnest study learn 


FLORIDA /STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


35 


to take advantage of every particle of useful information that can be obtained. 

We are here this week to test theories ; 
and if they are not in accord with fact, to have them brushed ruthlessly away as chaff. We are here to be helpful to one another, that we may be the better able to see our own way clearly. 


DISCUSSION. 

Prof. Hume: I believe I voice the sen¬ 
timent of those who are best informed in the matter when I say that never in the history of the State has there been a time when the Experiment Station of the 
University is so nearly filling the place that it should fill in the State. This Cit¬ 


rus Seminar was one of the most inter¬ 
esting meetings I have ever seen in the 
State of Florida, and while I do not know that it is the intention to make it an annual affair, I sincerely hope it is, 
and I am sure anyone would be much benefited by taking advantage of the op¬ 
portunity that is offered them. 

It is a strange thing to me that the mere act of putting a man on the program is to' ensure his staying away. If we were at all superstitious, we would say that putting a man on the jprogram is a sure sign that he won’t be at the meet¬ 
ing. However, on the subject “Methods of Handling Citrus Groves” we are luck¬ 
ier than usual, for we have two members on the committee present, Mr. Williams and Mr. Thompson. 









New Types of Citrus Fruits for Florida 


Walter T. Swingle. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

I had the pleasure of presenting to the members of this society at the meeting at 
Daytona last year some of the results of the recent work in the breeding of new types of citrus fruits. I spent the months from March to June last spring in Flor¬ 
ida making hybrids with a view to secur¬ 
ing new types of citrus fruits, some of which I shall discuss in this paper. 

The work heretofore done in connec¬ 
tion with the breeding of hardy citrus fruits has not been of a character to in¬ 
terest directly the orange growers of cen¬ 
tral and southern peninsular Florida. The hybrids between the trifoliata and the common orange (citranges, as we call them) are not of a type likely to prove a success for commercial culture, although excellent for home use throughout the cotton states, and are of comparatively little interest in regions where oranges, 
lemons and limes can be grown. 

I have had the feeling that many of my 
Florida friends, although somewhat in¬ 
terested in the work, have considered that it did not directly concern them. I be¬ 
lieve that the results which I shall dis¬ 
cuss today will convince you that there is a side of this work which has a direct personal interest to every orange grower in Florida. 


THREE-QUARTER HYBRIDS. 

Last year I showed the members of this society photographs of softie of the hy¬ 
brids obtained by Mr. E. M. Savage the year before by crossing the citrange back with one of its parents, thereby securing hybrids containing 3-4 orange and 1-4 
trifoliata. These citrangors, as we call them, show considerable variation, some having distinctly trifoliate and others entire leaves like the orange. The studies made during the past year have convinced me that the pollen grains of the citrange have a great range of diversity; some be¬ 
ing practically of the orange type and others partly trifoliata, consequently the 
Citrangors show almost every type from half-blood orange to trifoliate and from citrange to practically pure orange, show¬ 
ing only minute traces of trifoliate blood. 
It is obvious that in this way we secure hybrids showing all variations of trifol¬ 
iata blood and there can be but little doubt that a slight touch of the trifoliata would be likely to add an agreeable zest to the fruit and besides give additional hardiness to the tree. I have secured photographs of three or four of the more diverse types of Citrangors so that mem¬ 
bers can see something of the extent of variation in this type of hybrid. 



FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


37 


SECOND GENERATION CITRANGES. 

When the citranges (trifoliata by com¬ 
mon orange) were first made it was not expected that the first generation hybrids grown from seed secured by such cross pollination would be of any value, while it was confidently expected that the sec¬ 
ond generation hybrids grown from seeds of the citranges themselves would show occasional combinations of the qualities of the two parents which would make them valuable. The unexpected is said always to happen, however, and it certainly did in this case. Many of the first generation citranges proved distinct¬ 
ly of value for home use in the Cotton 
States. Some of them were nearly seed¬ 
less so that it was difficult to try the ex¬ 
periment of securing second generation seedlings. Others, however, seeded very freely and upon growing the seedlings they were seen to be monotonously uni¬ 
form, reproducing almost exactly the pa¬ 
rental type. 

Among the 14 or 15 citranges now in fruit, 2 have been found that occasionally give rise to true second generation hy¬ 
brids, and 2 more the seeds from which all give rise to second generation hybrids. 
These citranges, it is true, are not among the best varieties, but one of them is of fair quality and the other is of large size and handsome appearance though of un¬ 
usually bitter flavor. The seedlings of these citranges show the most extraordi¬ 
nary diversity, ranging all the way from practically pure orange to practically pure trifoliata, with every conceivable interme¬ 
diate stage. It is almost impossible to find duplicates among the scores of plants now under observation. They show much 


the same variation as the Citrangors al¬ 
ready referred to but have vastly wider range, the Citrangors having as their two extremes the citrange on one side and the orange on the other, while the second generation, seedlings range from orange to trifoliate, a much wider field. Then, 
too, the second generation seedlings are secured without any further trouble than the mere planting of the citrange seeds; 
all that is necessary is to propagate the two varieties of citrange mentioned and then plant the seed. In this way a wealth of new citrus fruits can be obtained and, 
what is of interest to the Florida citrus growers, many of these new fruits ap¬ 
proach the orange very closely in char¬ 
acter of leaf and in growth and will doubtless bear fruits distinctly of the or¬ 
ange type although at least some of them may be expected to show something of the hardiness of the trifoliata in the tree and perhaps some of the earliness of this parent in the ripening of the fruit. Pho¬ 
tographs are attached showing something of the amount of variation seen among the seedlings of these two' varieties of cit¬ 
ranges; also photograph showing a few older seedlings of the rustic citrange planted in the fall of 1908, and giving some idea of the appearance of these sec¬ 
ond generation citranges as they get old¬ 
er. 

It should be stated, in this connection, 
that long experience has shown conclu¬ 
sively that much can be judged as to the character of the fruit of a citrus plant from the appearance of the leaves. Of course, the Citrangors and these second generation seedlings will be forced into fruit as soon as possible, and I hope with¬ 
in a couple of years to give the first actual 




38 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY 


demonstration of the truth of what is here announced. 

COMPLEX CITRUS HYBRIDS. 

Besides the two classes of citrus hy¬ 
brids mentioned above there is a third containing a small proportion of trifoliata blood, which is likely to be of decided in¬ 
terest in Florida. These hybrids have been secured by crossing citranges with other citrus fruits not entering into the parentage of the original hybrid; that is, 
citranges have been crossed with the grapefruit on one hand, with the hope of securing new types of citrus fruits suita¬ 
ble to be eaten from the hand but still having some of the hardiness of the tri¬ 
foliata; and with the kumquat on the other hand in the hope of securing hardy forms of acid fruit's suitable for making ade. The kumquat has one important type of hardiness, ability to> resist spells of hot weather in winter without starting into growth; while the trifoliata is able to withstand very severe cold when in a completely dormant condition. 

VIGOR OF GROWTH OF CITRUS HYBRIDS 
REMARKABLE. 

An interesting thing has developed in connection with these hybrids: Citranges are more vigorous than either the orange or the trifoliate parent, often growing as rapidly as the combined growth of both parents. The Citrangors and second gen¬ 
eration citranges do not show this exces¬ 
sive vigor, most of them being about as vigorous as the parent they most resem¬ 
ble; that is, second generation citranges that look like oranges grow about as rap¬ 
idly as the orange. 


When citranges are crossed with a third species, especially if it is very dif¬ 
ferent, such as the grapefruit or kum¬ 
quat, then the hybrids which really rep¬ 
resent a commingling of three species, 
show extraordinary vigor, in some cases nearly equaling in growth the combined growth of all three parents. For exam¬ 
ple : A kumquat flower crossed June 6, 
1909, with pollen of the Rusk citrange, the fruit being picked the latter part of Oc¬ 
tober, 1909. The seeds were planted in the greenhouse of the Department of Ag¬ 
riculture on October 28th, sprouted with¬ 
in a week and in six weeks the young plants were strong enough to be inarched on two-year-old grapefruit stock. From the moment these seedlings appeared above the ground they have not ceased growing and are now from 2 1-2 to 3 
feet high, as large as most citrus seed¬ 
lings two years old, although they are barely six months old from the time of germination. 

Some of the hybrids made between the citrange and the Satsuma show some¬ 
thing of this unusual vigor, which is to be expected since the Satsuma is rather different from any of the other citrus fruits. 

At any rate, here we find a method of securing extraordinarily vigorous hybrids combining the qualities of three parental species. 

It should be stated, as mentioned in connection with the Citrangors, that the pollen of the citrange shows a wide range of character. If crossed on the grape¬ 
fruit, for example, some of the plants look much as if they were crosses between the orange and the grapefruit, while oth¬ 
ers are much like crosses between the tri- 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


39 


foliate and grapefruit, with all conceiva¬ 
ble intermediates. The same is true of the kumquat and Satsuma crosses. 

In order to secure the great energy of growth just referred to it is necessary that a distinctly different species of cit¬ 
rus fruit be used in the cross. If asked 
* 

if it is possible to go a step farther in this, the answer is that this depends upon our ability to find still more diverse types of citrus fruits, than we now have. This 
I am glad to say has been done. Within the past year the investigations conducted by the Department of Agriculture has brought tO' light the existence of at least two or three entirely unsuspected types of citrus fruits. One is a hardy kum¬ 
quat growing in the deserts of Australia and able to stand temperatures but slight¬ 
ly above zero. It bears small, edible fruits of the type of the round kumquat. 
As we have found the kumquat to be extremely useful in complex hybrids there is much to 1 be expected from this desert kumquat. 

A giant kumquat, or at least a species of fruit more closely allied to the kum¬ 
quat than anything else we know of, has been, found to grow in Burma, the Ma¬ 
layan Archipelago and the Andaman Is¬ 
lands. This tree grows to a height of from 25-30 feet and bears a fruit from 
1 1-2 to 2 inches in diameter. 

There has also been brought to light in tropical Africa a whole group of edible citrus fruits of a new type. The trees have compound leaves with from three to seven leaflets. The leaves themselves are of gigantic size, sometimes 1 1-2 feet long and 1 foot wide, the individual leaf¬ 
lets being much larger than any ordinary 


citrus leaf. The fruits are small but sweet and of good flavor. 

Here, then, are three new types of cit¬ 
rus fruits which, when secured, can be used in complex hybrids with strong probability of securing great vigor among their descendants. The kumquat, though a dwarf plant, has yielded extraordinari¬ 
ly vigorous seedlings when crossed with the citrange—very much more vigorous than would be secured by crossing the cit¬ 
range with even the largest and most vig¬ 
orous type of orange. 

TANGELOS. 

One of the first crosses made by the writer some twelve years ago was that between the tangerine orange and the grapefruit. This was a lucky strike since it gave rise to 1 the Sampson Tangelo which represents another valuable new type of citrus fruit. When oranges of the loose skin type are crossed with grape¬ 
fruit the hybrids often produce fruits al¬ 
most entirely destitute of the bitterness of the grapefruit but still containing much of the agreeable sprightliness of the latter. Some of the Tangelos are thin-skinned and almost all are of good flavor. 

In this connection, the experience of 
Mr. A. Aaronsohn, Director of the Jew¬ 
ish Agricultural Experiment Station at 
Haifa, Palestine, is of interest. Himself a grower of the Jaffa orange and coming to this country unfamiliar with the grape- 
fruit, he told me that after becoming ac¬ 
customed to the latter he had practically lost his taste for the orange which seemed insipid after once he had tasted the de¬ 
licious sprightliness of the grapefruit. 


40 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Experiences of this nature make it seem probable that the Tangelos will be found to be the orange of the future. It should be said that they are much more like a good sweet orange than anything else but are distinctly different in having more zest and sprightliness. Very few people, seeing a good tangelo for the first time, would guess correctly its parentage. 
In view of the great promise of this hy¬ 
brid a large number of crosses have been made between all available types of kid glove oranges and the best of our grape¬ 
fruits. Hybrids are also being made with the Chinese grapefruit which, although it is thick-skinned and less handsome than our own, has in the opinion of some per¬ 
sons a distinctly better flavor. 

Certain comparatively unknown small hardy oranges of the Satsuma (kid glove) type from Japan are also being used in these crosses, since it has been found that small-fruited parents do not necessarily make small-fruited hybrids. 
This Tangelo breeding is, perhaps, the most promising field of all from the standpoint of the Florida orange grower. 

BREEDING GRAPEFRUITS. 

The grapefruit is perhaps the greatest of the Florida fruits, but as everybody knows it has by no means reached the high state of perfection attained by the orange. Most varieties are very seedy, 
and even if not, have some drawback or other. There is every reason to believe that radical improvements will be made in the grapefruit when once its breeding is taken up in a systematic manner. 

Mr. David G. Fairchild of the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, has given much attention to the securing of new 


types of grapefruit from all parts of the 
Old World, particularly from China, 
Siam and India. Many of these varie¬ 
ties are now fruiting, and although most of them are distinctly inferior to our own grapefruit, some possess certain de¬ 
sirable qualities. It is believed that the hybridizing of these with our own grape¬ 
fruit will be likely to yield extremely val¬ 
uable new varieties. At the same time crosses are being made with the trifoliata in the hope of securing second generation trifoliata -grapefruit crosses resembling the grapefruit in general characters but partaking somewhat of the hardiness of the trifoliata. Such hybrids would very likely be less seedy than the fullblood grapefruit. 

TESTING NEW STOCKS FOR CITRUS FRUITS. 

A botanical survey has been made of the relatives of the Genus Citrus . Some 
80 species of plants, belonging to 19 dif¬ 
ferent genera, may be considered as close relatives of our common citrus fruits. 
These for the most part are closely enough related so that they can be grafted on each other, while many of them are so closely related that it will be possible to hybridize them with each other and with our ordinary citrus fruits. 

Some of these are so unlike the orange that hybrids would not be of any value for their fruits even if they could be crossed successfully. Some, however, 
are very vigorous growing trees and have been found (at least in the greenhouse here) to be the best stocks upon which to graft our common citrus fruits. 

Inasmuch as the orange blight is now strongly suspected to be a root disease, it 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


41 


is my hope that some of these very di¬ 
verse types may prove resistant to the blight and at the same time be excellent stocks in every other respect. The ac¬ 
companying photographs show all the or¬ 
dinary citrus fruits growing on a remark¬ 
able citrus relative from the Philippines— 
the Tabog or Philippine Baelfruit. This has trifoliate leaves and bears a hard shelled fruit, utterly unlike the orange in that it is filled with a very aromatic and juicy pulp and has seed chambers filled with gum. Nevertheless, as can be seen from the photographs, this promises to.be a most excellent stock and is among the most rapid growing of all the many cit¬ 
rus relatives that we have tested in our greenhouse. 

TESTING OUT NEW CITRUS HYBRIDS IN 

FLORIDA. 

In order to successfully carry on the work outlined above it will be necessary to have the co-operation of Florida cit¬ 
rus growers in the testing out of these new fruits. It is out of the question for the Department of Agriculture to estab¬ 
lish and maintain orange groves over a sufficiently wide range of soil and climate to give them a fair test. All we can do is to make the hybrids, propagate them and distribute budwood to co-operators who are willing to test out these promis¬ 
ing new fruits. 

I take this opportunity of requesting all 
Florida orange growers who are interest¬ 
ed in the trial of such new fruits to com¬ 
municate with me, care of U. S. Depart¬ 
ment of Agriculture at Washington, 
D. C. 


In this way the work will be carried on in the most efficient manner. The mak¬ 
ing of hybrids will be largely done by ex¬ 
perts who have acquired great skill in the work; the propagation will be undertaken by other experts who, thanks to the green¬ 
house • facilities at Washington, can push such seedlings much more rapidly than is possible out of doors in Florida; while the testing of the fruits will be put in the hands of expert growers who are best able to look after this phase of the work. 


DISCUSSION. 

Mr. Thompson: How many of the growers have gotten these citranges and what has been the result from their growth ? 

I would say that I secured four from the government and we planted them as we did the ordinary stock, and results have been far from satisfactory. They have not made a very good growth. The soil is the same as for trees that have outstripped them four times. 

Mr. Skinner: I received some cit- 
ranges, and the Sampson Tangelo has done very well. The trees look thrifty, 
but have not made as much growth as our trees generally make, but they seem to be doing fairly well and have a good, 
thrifty appearance. However, the soil is very poor high pine land. 

Dr. Inman: I received from the Agri¬ 
cultural Department some years ago, ten hybrids. They are of the grapefruit fam¬ 
ily, but what they are hybridized with, I 
cannot say nor have I had report from the Agricultural Department. Prof. Gal- 



42 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIEIY. 


loway, visiting Winter Haven, was very favorably impressed with the fruit from these trees. One tree is full of fruit that has changed but very little. We expect it to carry its fruit until late in July this 
.season. 

Mr. Temple: I understood the gentle¬ 
man to ask what experience any of the growers had had with the trifoliate base on high pine land. If that was the ques¬ 
tion, I have had some experience with it and am perfectly willing to give it to you. 

About six years ago, I bought one thousand buds of trifoliata stock—kum- 
quats, grapefruit, King oranges and half a dozen other. While the King did fairly well, the kumquats did exceptionally welL 
but above all things the successful one was the grapefruit. I have over 200 
grapefruit trees on trifoliata stock that we set out close together because we were given to understand that they would not make very large trees. I have already had to take out every other tree, and will have to take out every other tree again. 

Last year, which was five years from the planting of these buds, we picked and marketed four and one-half boxes of grapefruit to the tree from every one of the grapefruit budded on trifoliata. 


Prof. Hume: I think we must con¬ 
cede that Prof. Swingle is bound to win out. Some of us have had our doubts about it, but I must say that I believe if he lives long enough and works hard enough, he is going to succeed. Those of us who know Prof. Swingle, are sure that he will work hard enough, and we all hope he will live long enough to bring about this result—and then some. 

I believe one of these days he will pre¬ 
sent us with an orange tree that will stand temperatures we have not dreamed of.* 

Dr. Inman: I would like to* ask Mr. 
Temple how his trees have withstood the recent cold we have had. 

Mr. Temple : Not only the recent cold does not seem to have affected that grape¬ 
fruit, either the tree or the fruit, any more than it has the orange trees on the place, but in truth the trifoliata grape- 
fruit shows less effect from the frost than the grapefruit we have there which were seedlings, or budded on the lemon or sour stock. 

Mr. -: What soil is it ? 

Mr. Temple: What you would call high hammock—that is, pine with some oak growth interspersed through it. 





PLATE I. 














PLATE II. 



4. Broad Leaved Citrange-like Plant. 



5. Normal Rustic Seedling, Showing 
Parent Type of Foliage. 


















































■ 



































* 




























































PLATE III 



Showing Variation in Second Generation Citranges. (1) Seedling Orange; 
Citrange, Intermediate Type, About Like the Parent Citrange. 


(2) Seedling Trifoliatas; (3) Seedling 





















































PLATE V. 



Six-Months-Old Seedling Citrangequats. Obtained by crossing the Oval Kumquat With the Rusk Citrange; Plant 
Inarched on Two-Year-Old Grapefruit Stock When about G Weeks Old. Photograph Taken Six Months From 
Time Seed Was Planted. 















































' 


. 


















































































PLATE VI. 



Various Citrus Fruits Crafted on the Tabog. Beginning 
Kumquat), Washington Navel, Lemon, Mexican Lime. 
One-quarter Natural Size. 


on the left—Trifoliata, Oval Kumquat, Calamondin (To- 
To the Extreme Right Ungrafted Plant of the Tabog. 





































. 


























































PLATE VII. 



ig 14. Citrangors Produced by Mr. E. M. Savage at Glen St. Mary, Florida in the Spring of 1908 by Crossing 
Citrange No. 746 (See Plate 7) With Pollen Taken from a St. Michael Orange Tree. Some of the Seedlings 
Are Simply False Hybrids; Others Show Leaves Almost Exactly Like Those of the Common Orange Although 
They Certainly Contain One-Quarter Trifoliate Orange Blood and Will Probably Prove Hardier Than Any Ex¬ 
isting’ Varieties of the Orange, 












. 

. 


- 

























PLATE VIII. 



Tabog (Philippine Bael Fruit), a Very Promising Stock. 

One-Half Natural Size, 



Fig. 16. Citrangor (3-4 Common Or- 
ang'e, 1-4 Trifoliate) Obtained by E. 
M. Savage in 1908 by Crossing Cit- 
range No. 75 With Parson Brown Or¬ 
ange. Next to Top Leaf on Right 
Shows Trifoliate Influence. Note the 
Orange-like Leaves. 







































































Causes of Decay of Florida Oranges in Transit 

to Market 


A Review of the Work of the U. S. Department of Agriculture in Florida 1907- 

1910. 


A. V. Stubenrauch. 

In Charge of Fruit Transportation and Storage Investigations, U. S. Department of Agricul¬ 
ture. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

I regret that my former associate, Mr. 
Lloyd S. Tenny, is not able to attend this meeting and give an account of the inves¬ 
tigations of the causes of decay of or¬ 
anges in transit from Florida. Mr. Ten¬ 
ny had charge of this work since it was started four years ago, and is fully con¬ 
versant with every part of it. He it was who planned the experiments and demon¬ 
strations and it is largely due to his ef¬ 
forts that the work owes its progress. I 
am not as familiar with the work of the 
Bureau of Plant Industry in Florida as was Mr. Tenny. I have therefore to re¬ 
ly upon the data and information accu¬ 
mulated by others, and this paper, then, 
will have to be mostly in the nature of a review of what has been done and an ac¬ 
count of what is planned for the future. 

The citrus transportation investigations of the Bureau of Plant Industry were be¬ 
gun seven years ago in California. For some time prior to that time the orange 


growers of California urged the bureau to begin an investigation of the causes of the decay of their fruit in transit. It was estimated that an average of 5 per cent, 
of the entire crop shipped out decayed en route, thus entailing an enormous loss to the growers. The progress and re¬ 
sults of these California investigations are perhaps familiar to most of the members of the Florida Society. The work was published as Bulletin No. 123 of the Bu¬ 
reau of Plant Industry. 

The success of the California investi¬ 
gations led to requests for a similar line of work in Florida. In response to these requests M,r. Tenny was delegated to car¬ 
ry out the investigations in the Florida citrus districts and he and a number of associates have been at work and have given accounts of the progress of the work in papers read before the annual meetings of this society. 

The ultimate aim of fruit growing is profit—to sell the crop at a profit. It fol¬ 
lows that any investigations which have 




44 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


for their object the improvement of the crop must also have the dollars-and-cents end in view. The utilitarian object can¬ 
not be neglected and the improvements which may follow the investigations must be made profitable to the growers. We have endeavored in the work which has been done never to lose sight of this fact. 

It is useless to raise a crop of fruit, 
no matter how fine it may be, unless it can be marketed or sold at a profit. This selling or marketing end of the fruit in¬ 
dustry is a special business of itself, re¬ 
quiring special talents and training. Es¬ 
pecially is this true in an industry like the citrus fruit industry which has now reached such large proportions that the marketing problems are becoming more complex every day. Fruit growers are recognizing this fact and now employ specially trained and competent managers and salesmen to attend to the selling end of the business. 

The basis of all succesful marketing of fruit products is good fruit put up in at¬ 
tractive shape and gotten to market in sound condition. The problems of hand¬ 
ling a fruit crop of the extent of the cit¬ 
rus crop are problems of wide distribu¬ 
tion, the solution of which depends largely upon the possibility of getting the pro¬ 
duct to market in sound condition. 

The fruit growers have mastered many of the problems of production. These have to deal with the various orchard practices of planting, cultivating, fertil¬ 
izing, pruning, control of insect pests and fungus diseases. Most attention has been directed toward these factors in the past. 
But it has frequently happened that growers who do their utmost to produce 


fine fruit, and who succeed in producing fine fruit, nullify all these efforts by the way in which they prepare their product for market. It has not uncommonly hap¬ 
pened that the bureau workers have ob¬ 
served fine fruit which the growers have spared no expense to produce, utterly ruined in its preparation for shipment, as a result of the attempt to save a few cents per box in the cost of handling it. 
In a general way, most fruit growers re¬ 
alize that fruit must be handled carefully. 
But few realize what careful handling really means, and still fewer appreciate or realize the amount of injury which is actually due to careless methods of han¬ 
dling. 

Decay affects the grower in two ways: 

First: Decay is a direct loss to the buyer of the fruit and is always charged to the grower. He always has to pay for it. 

Second: Decay affects the market rep¬ 
utation of the grower’s pack. 

The first loss is relatively easy to cal¬ 
culate. It is estimated that the loss to the California growers was from i to i 
1-2 millions of dollars annually. The loss to the Florida growers has equaled a half or three-quarters of a million an¬ 
nually. 

The second loss is perhaps the more important, but cannot be easily estimated. 

The actual money value of the reputa¬ 
tion of brands arriving consistently sound and in good, attractive condition cannot be stated. It means not only a premium above ordinary market prices, but a more ready sale and active demand. In times of low market conditions such brands will find sale at fair profit while those with 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


45 


poor reputations can hardly be given away. 

At one time it was thought that a cer¬ 
tain percentage of decay was inevitable and unavoidable. And this is true; but to a much more limited extent than was formerly recognized. Buyers take these losses into account in paying the produc¬ 
er for his crop, and they also take decay into account when they retail the fruit to the consumer. 

The producer is affected both ways: He not only receives less for his product, but the demand is decreased and fewer peo¬ 
ple can afford to buy. Buyers can nat¬ 
urally pay more for sound fruit which will hold up in the market, and they do not have to charge so great a margin of profit to the consumer. 

The bureau investigations were under¬ 
taken to determine the causes of decay and to make a study of the relation of handling the fruit for market to the oc¬ 
currence of decay, if there is such a re¬ 
lation. 

The cause of most of the decay is the growth of the blue mold fungus, one of the commonest forms of mold or decay. 
A thorough study of the behavior of the fungus on citrus fruits was made both in the laboratory and in the packing houses. 
What is here stated may be familiar to almost everybody present, but the point is so important that it is well worthy of rep¬ 
etition. 

Blue mold is not a true parasite, i. e., 
it does not live on healthy living tissue. 
It lives and grows on dead tissue just as the higher plants live in the soil and draw their nourishment from it. The fungus must have dead tissue on which to start. 
It must have moisture and warmth. It 


has not the power to penetrate the sound healthy skin of fruits. The fruit as it leaves the tree is a living organism. The rind is a complete covering of living, ac¬ 
tive cells which protect the fruit from the attacks of the fungus. But let some of these cells be killed by a bruise, or a scratch, or a cut—an abrasion of any kind—the fungus spores will germinate and grow at the injured places when the proper conditions of moisture and heat are present. These conditions usually ex¬ 
ist in the packed box of fruit. 

These facts were worked out in Cal¬ 
ifornia on a large scale in both packing houses and laboratory. Sound fruit cov¬ 
ered with spores held in rooms where both the temperature and humidity were kept very high for two weeks showed practically no decay. Injured fruit un¬ 
der the same conditions always rotted. 

The same principles were worked out in packed fruit and fruit in transit. 

This general principle—that the blue mold has not the power to penetrate the sound healthy skin of the fruit—was the only thing in the nature of “a theory” 
brought into the Florida work at the start. Will the principle of the relation of handling to decay hold true in Florida as it did in California? There were no previous theories other than this, and the workers set out to ascertain the actual facts by careful investigation and experi¬ 
ments. A close study of the conditions of handling oranges from the tree to the packing house, into the box and then through to the markets was made. A 
large amount of data have been accumu¬ 
lated. Fruit from different sections, and grown under different conditions was studied and the work was extended 


46 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


through several seasons. All effort was made to have the work done under con¬ 
ditions as practical and as nearly com¬ 
mercial as possible. This has been no simple “laboratory” experiment. 

In brief: It has been found to our full satisfaction that the general principles re¬ 
lating to the behavior of the blue mold and the relation of handling to the oc¬ 
currence of decay are as true for Florida as they are for California. There is a definite relation between the handling of the fruit and resulting injury, and the de¬ 
cay caused by blue mold. 

It was found further that the Florida orange is more tender and more easily in¬ 
jured; yet sound uninjured Florida or¬ 
anges do not rot any more than sound 
California oranges, all conditions being the same. Conversely, injured Califor¬ 
nia oranges are just as susceptible to rot as injured Floridas under like conditions. 

This is a very important point and is really the crux of the whole matter. 
There are sufficient facts and data to prove to our full satisfaction the appli¬ 
cation of this general principle for Flor¬ 
ida conditions. 

What remains now to be done is to demonstrate the application to the Flor¬ 
ida growers. Our work, then, in the fu¬ 
ture will be in the nature of an educa¬ 
tional and demonstrational campaign us¬ 
ing the data we have obtained as the ba¬ 
sis of the work. The work of the past two seasons has been in the nature of such a campaign and next season, at least, it is planned to extend the work along these lines. The work has not been as exten¬ 
sive in the past as we would have liked to have it, owing to the lack of men and money. Last season the frost cut the 


work far short of what was originally planned. 

In order to make our educational cam¬ 
paign effective and of real value we must have the active and hearty co-operation of all the growers. We have had excel¬ 
lent co-operation in the past. We need more of it. It is not sufficient to give us respectful attention or tolerance. We need active support and interest. 

The application of the principles worked out are more difficult in Florida than in California. Industrial conditions are different. Weather, climate and sea¬ 
sonal conditions are different. 

We have found the California Fruit 
Growers' Exchange a great help in dis¬ 
seminating the results of our work in 
California. The Florida Citrus Ex¬ 
change organized this year has been of great assistance in extending and using the work and its results. 
More growers can be reached and with less effort than without the organ¬ 
ization. The establishment of new pack¬ 
ing houses with improved equipment has helped. The taking over of picking and handling to be done by gangs working under trained foremen has materially as¬ 
sisted in making our work more effective. 
This is not said with any lack of appre¬ 
ciation of the valuable co-operation which has been given by individuals and inde¬ 
pendent shippers and handlers, and we hope to continue to receive their active support. 

I had a trip through many of the Flor¬ 
ida. citrus districts last winter. From what I saw it is apparent to me that more careful and better methods are being sought and the desire to improve handling conditions is general. 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


47 


Four years ago, Tenny stated before this society that a conservative estimate placed the loss from decay of oranges in transit from Florida at from io to 15 
per cent. We do not know what the av¬ 
erage loss was last season. But now we do know that by far the greater part of any such loss is preventable if care is used in the preparation of the fruit for market. 

Last season the work of gathering picking and handling data was continued. 
This actually became an inspection of the work being done in different groves and packing houses. In several instances the inspection of the work -of particular gangs of pickers was continued through¬ 
out The season, the results being used to demonstrate the necessity of doing more careful work. In this way, also, the careful and careless workmen were dis¬ 
covered. 

Last season’s investigations also< in¬ 
cluded a series of washing experiments. 
These were carried on to determine the effect of washing Florida oranges. 

A series of shipping experiments was also started. These included a compari¬ 
son of sound fruit carefully handled and packed with the same fruit handled and packed under ordinary commercial con¬ 
ditions. Part of each lot was packed and shipped the same day it was picked, and parts two and four days after picking. 

PICKING AND HANDLING INVESTIGATIONS 

This work was done at Arcadia, Bar¬ 
tow, Bradentown, Florence Villa, Clear¬ 
water, Largo, Dunedin, Sutherland, Pal¬ 
metto, Wauchula, Winter Haven and 
Winter Park. 


The first year of our work, 1906-7, the total average of injuries for all the fruit examined was 12.4 per cent., including clipper cuts and other types of mechani¬ 
cal injuries (scratches, punctures, etc.), 
and 6.7 per cent, long stems. 

The accompanying table shows the re¬ 
sults of these inspection records during the past four years. 

Table 1. 

1906-7 1907-8 1908-9 1909-10 
P. ct. P. ct. P. ct. P. ct. 

5.7 5.5 3.4 3.25 

6.7 8.8 3.3 9.9 

6.7 9.2 9.3 7.3 

Total injured . 12.4 14.3 6.7 13.15 

The averages of clipper cuts are about the same for the first two years. There was a material reduction of this type of injury during the last two years. It can be reduced still lower under actual commercial conditions. 

There was a material increase in the percentage of mechanical injuries other than clipper cuts found during 1909-10. 
It is probable that this figure is too high to represent average conditions of the entire State. Owing to the cold weather the data are not as complete as we would like to have them. The figures show, 
however, that there is room for much improvement before the standard found possible under large commercial condi¬ 
tions is reached. 

The table shows a high percentage of long stems. It is important that this per¬ 
centage be materially reduced. A 
prominent grower of California has said that he fears long stems more than clip¬ 
per cuts. “A clipper cut orange,” said he, 
“is finished and the injury is only to itself, but a long stem is like a murderer turned loose.” One long stemmed or- 


Clipper cuts . 

All other injuries 
Long- stems . 






48 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


ange may injure several others in the course of handling and packing. 

Is it possible to handle oranges care¬ 
fully enough on a commercial scale to eliminate injury? I find that there was considerable discussion on this point aft¬ 
er the reading of Mr. Tenny’s first pa¬ 
per before this society. Many of the growers seemed to doubt that it would be practicable under Florida conditions to handle without injury. The best an¬ 
swer to the question is the fact that it is being done, not only in California, but in Florida also. 

The accompanying table shows the rec¬ 
ords obtained last season in different packing houses. 

Table IT. Percentages of Clipper Cut Oranges and 
Cong Stems in Different Packing Houses, 1909-10. 


Clipper Other Long 

Cuts Injuries Stems 

Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. 

General average. 3.25 9.9 7.3 

Houses separately 1.1.1 ... 1.0 

2 . 2.7 6.6 2.7 

3 .4.2 1.1 3.5 

4 .4.5 ... 4.2 

5 . 5.0 7.4 3.6 

6 .5.0 ... 4.3 

7 . 4.8 2.0 7.4 

8 .1.3 ... 8.7 

9 .3.9 ... 2.0 

10.4.0 ... 19.2 


The figures show a very wide range. 
Some are very low and below the aver¬ 
age. The range is from i per cent, clip¬ 
per cuts to 5 per cent. The range of long stem percentages is still greater running from i per cent to 19 per cent. In two instances both the clipper cut and long stem percentages are very low, showing very good work being done. In a num¬ 
ber of cases, however, the reduction of clipper cutting seems to have been ob¬ 
tained at the expense of making long stems. This must be avoided. In Cal¬ 
ifornia the rule of making two cuts to every orange not in plain sight has been 


adopted. This results both in the reduc¬ 
tion of long stems and clipper cuts and also does away with the picker dropping the fruit directly from the tree into the bag or basket. 

The following table shows the records of a picking gang at the beginning of the season and later after the inspections and instruction of the government work¬ 
ers had their effect. The table also shows the results obtained in the same district by a grower who insisted on do¬ 
ing his own picking and another record of fruit picked by a gang working under the box-payment plan. 

Table III. OraDge Picking in One Locality in Flor¬ 
ida, 1909-10. 

Clipper cuts. Long stems. 

Per cent. Per cent. 
Commercial picking, before instruc¬ 
tion, careless.5.5 4.0 

Same gang as above, after instruc¬ 
tion, careful .1.3 1.0 

Picked by owner . 7.0 20.0 

Picking by the box . 9.8 23.7 

The figures hardly require explanation. 
They show that it is possible to get good work done. Everything depends on the foreman. The plan of inspecting each picker’s work during the day’s run is the one adopted to hold injuries and long stems in check. In this way the pickers who are doing rough and careless work are discovered and can be repri¬ 
manded or eliminated. The man who habitually handles roughly and cannot or will not be careful must be discharged. 
He is an expensive workman at any price. 

Naturally, it will cost more to handle in this way. But there are ample exam¬ 
ples to show that it pays well to do this. 
I am more familiar with conditions in 
California, but I dare say there are exam¬ 
ples in Florida sufficient to prove this. If 









FLORIDA >STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


49 


the saving in the fruit alone is taken into consideration, there is ample saving to pay for careful work. If we add to this the value of the reputation for soundness and holding quality on the market, -the extra cost will be returned many times over. In California frequently differ¬ 
ences of from 25 to 50 cents and even more per box above the ordinary market prices are given for brands which have a reputation for soundness. It is impos¬ 
sible to estimate the money value of a good reputation. 

In California it has required the reor¬ 
ganization of the business of handling the crop in order to insure careful handling. 
The insistence of quality of work instead of quantity has necessitated a close super¬ 
vision of the handling both in the groves and in the packing houses. More and more, associations are taking over the picking, putting in gangs working under efficient foremen. Some associations ac¬ 
complish good results by having a rigid system of inspection, insisting that the grower do careful work. 

With the number of new associations which are being organized in Florida, it will be possible to introduce better meth¬ 
ods. Good work must be made the basis of the business and it will be necessary for the association to exercise close su¬ 
pervision and possibly control of all op¬ 
erations of handling the fruit from the tree to market. 

WASHING EXPERIMENTS. 

These experiments were made in order to determine the amount of injury and decay resulting from washing. Wash¬ 


ing is necessary where the fruit has been blackened by smut following white fly scale. It seems to be a mistake to wash simply because it is supposed to improve the appearance of the fruit. In Califor¬ 
nia our investigations demonstrated that decay bore a direct relation to the amount and character of the handling to which the fruit was subjected. As a result, all unnecessary handling was eliminated. 
Many houses discontinued dry brushing when it was shown that brushing might be responsible for heavy decay. 

When the California work was begun, 
it was commonly supposed that fruit pro¬ 
duced near the coast was weaker and had poorer carrying quality than fruit produced inland away from coastal influ¬ 
ences. Unquestionably there was heavier decay in the coast fruit. It was found that this was not an inherent quality of the fruit itself. It was due to the extra handling necessary to put the coast fruit in condition for shipment. Washing was found to be largely responsible for the heavier decay in the coast fruit. Owing to scale, fully 90 per cent, of the coast fruit had to be washed, while little if any of the inland fruit required washing. By subjecting the inland fruit to the same conditions of washing it was shown that decay was nearly as heavy as in the coast fruit, and that if the coast fruit did not require washing it had practically as good holding quality as the inland fruit. 

The result also showed that in the op¬ 
eration of washing considerable improve¬ 
ment could be made. For example, much greater decay followed washing in dirty water than when clean water was used. 


50 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIFTVL 


There was also considerable difference resulting from the use of different ma¬ 
chines and the speed and manner of op¬ 
erating the machines. 

The experiments made last season in 
Florida were designed to show the effect following washing of Florida oranges. 
The chart and table show the averages of all the washing experiments made in 
Florida. 

Table IV. Average Percentages of Blue Mold Decay 
Following Washing of Florida Oranges, 1909-10 


Not Washed. Washed. 

Per cent. Per cent. 

1.2 Careful picking . 4.2 

2.6 Ordinary commercial picking . 6.9 

Long stems . 9.8 


The figures show that there is an in¬ 
crease of decay following washing. The washed carefully picked fruit shows more decay than the not washed commercially picked fruit. There is also more in¬ 
crease of decay following washing of the commercially picked lots. 

The high percentage of decay follow¬ 
ing the washing of long-stemmed fruit is significant. The picking data present¬ 
ed show that long stems are common in 
Florida picking. When such fruit has to be washed it is important to have both the picking and the actual washing work done as carefully as possible. 

SHIPPING EXPERIMENTS. 

Our shipping experiments last season were not satisfactory in that the work was seriously curtailed by the frost and the continuity of the experiments was de¬ 
stroyed. It is felt that the data are too meagre to justify any definite conclu¬ 
sions. We need much more data and it is hoped that the experiments can be ex¬ 
tended next season. 


The plan last season was to ship ex¬ 
perimental series consisting of sound fruit handled and packed very care¬ 
fully under the supervision of the bureau workers, in compar¬ 
ison with the same fruit picked and packed under ordinary commercial packing house conditions. Along with these, lots made up of selected injured fruit were to have been included. The plan also included the holding of the fruit after arrival to study its market holding qualities for three weeks, inspections be¬ 
ing made on arrival and one, two and three weeks after arrival. 

A study of the delay in packing and shipping was also attempted. For this, 
part of the lots were packed and shipped the same day they were picked, part held two days and part held four days before packing and shipping. Only a small part of this work outlined was carried out ow¬ 
ing to the cold weather. 

While the data are too meagre to be definitely conclusive, they show, (i) That the least decay follows immediate pack¬ 
ing and shipping; (2) That there is least decay in the carefully handled fruit and most in the injured; (3) That there is less decay following delayed carefully picked fruit than delayed commercially handled or injured fruit. 

Sound fruit stands the delay without serious loss, but where there are consid¬ 
erable amounts of injuries present, the quicker the fruit is packed and shipped the less the decay shown on arrival. 

In the holding tests after arrival, the carefully handled fruit showed a very great advantage. The average of the few shipments we were able to make was 5.2 
per cent, decay after three weeks holding 





FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


51 


of the carefully handled lots, while the commercial packs showed an average of 
10.8 per cent, after the same length of time. The same relation is shown by the delayed lots. The carefully handled lots delayed 2 days before packing showed 
5.1 per cent, after 3 weeks in market, and that delayed four days showed 7.3 per cent, after the same time. 

The delayed commercial pack after. 
three weeks showed 15 per cent, for the 
2-day delay and 20.2 per cent, for the 
4-day delay. 

These results are consistent with the results of our California shipping work which was based on a large number of shipments. I have no doubt that similar results will follow the extension of the shipping investigations from Florida. 


DISCUSSION. 

Mr. Temple: May I ask the professor whether his figures of percentages of washed versus unwashed fruit are the sum total of all his washed experiments, 
or just a specified text? Is it not true, 
however, that under certain circumstances there was not only no greater decay but in some cases less decay on the washed than the unwashed fruit? 

Mr. Stubenrauch: It sometimes hap¬ 
pens, that there is practically no differ¬ 
ence, and in some instances there is less decay in washed fruit; but it would be unsafe to infer from this, that washing prevents decay. 

Mr. Temple: Now, of course, it is hard to go up against a proposition where the scientific men have carefully compiled statistics to prove their point to you. But 


in my experience, I am certainly led to believe that careful washing will remove some of the conditions which tend to cause decay, that may be present before washing. I do not believe that washing the fruit, when it is done as it should be, 
makes it more liable to decay, nor, of course, do' I believe that mechanically in¬ 
jured fruit will not decay even if care¬ 
fully washed. 

It really does seem to me that there are some cases where the washing of fruit seems to remove something that causes, 
the decay. 

Mr. Stubenrauch: Please understand: 
that I am not prepared to state positively that washing will or will not injure the fruit. I have simply described our tests and the results which have caused us to form the conclusions we have. 

Mr.—I would like to ask if any success has been met with where antisep¬ 
tics are used in the wash. 

Mr—I tried one experiment. I 
washed the oranges with water in which there was a small percentage of salicylic acid. After several days the oranges were carefully examined and the decay was found to be practically zero. 

Mr. Stubenrauch : We tried a number of these experiments in California, and had a man there one season working on that alone, but we did not get any re¬ 
sults that were worth noting. 

Mr. Young: Has it been found that there was any different percentage of de¬ 
cayed fruit caused by the different wash¬ 
ing machines? 

Mr. Stubenrauch: I have no doubt that some machines do more injury than others. It usually goes back, however, to the man who runs the machine. One man 





52 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


can get good work done by a machine, 
where another can do a whole lot of in¬ 
jury. The same is true of clippers. One man can take a rather undesirable pair of clippers and bring in his fruit in good condition, while another man with a much better clipper brings in his fruit in poor shape. 

Mr. Porcher: I would like to ask the professor—and I do not intend to criti¬ 
cize his investigation—if it would not be possible to get descriptions in detail of the machines and the methods, that we may have instructions and advice that will be beneficial. I am quite positive that oranges can be washed with benefit to the fruit and the growers’ pocket, but 
I am also aware that unless the machine is properly handled, it will do great in¬ 
jury. 

Now, if we could have plain statements from someone who knows as to the best machines, whether sponges are used, 
what number of sponges, the flow of wa¬ 
ter passing through the cylinder, and such information as this, 1 am confident that it would be of interest and profit. 
We take it that the professor knows all about the proper machine for washing fruit; how it should be run and how it should be maintained. There are many machines that are perfect in their way; on the other hand, I have seen machines where there is a lack of sponges, where the lining has been ripped or torn and the fruit jammed under the lining, and the odor from one of these machines was dis¬ 
tinctly apparent. One of the best things we can have around the place, is a man with a good smeller. He can detect lots of things that way that might otherwise go unnoticed. 


Mr. Stubenrauch: You can get the in¬ 
formation you want from the Depart¬ 
ment of Agriculture, or from some of the society members who are washing their fruit successfully. 

I agree with you as to the difference in washers. I, went into a number of packing houses in Florida last winter, 
and, as you say, there were some houses 
I didn’t want to go into without a hand¬ 
kerchief over my nose. Others were be¬ 
ing run on very satisfactory lines and were turning out fruit in fine condition. 

Mr. Porcher: I had a party of friends in the house and they wanted to see my machine in operation, so they went down to the washer just as they were dressed; 
they were in evening dress; my wife was one of them. They finally took charge of the washer; just pinned up their skirts so that they would not trip over them, 
and did all the work themselves, and I 
don’t think there was a spot or a stain on any of their dresses. 

Now, along the lines of injury'where water touches fruit. I took a box of fruit and dumped the contents carefully into a ditch. I wanted to try a little ex¬ 
periment to know just what damage it would do. The fruit remained there sev¬ 
eral days. I removed the fruit and found one orange pretty badly decayed, but that particular orange we had noticed before putting it into the water and had remark¬ 
ed at that time that there was a sign of blue mold on it. The fruit was washed off very carefully, and then we examined it and found it absolutely uninjured, and we packed it and marked it and shipped it, and it carried in good order. The point is that moisture does not injure 



FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


53 


fruit that has been carefully handled and is not cut or bruised. 

Mr. Stubenrauch: That takes you right back to careful handling. You get a machine that is all right with a careful man to run it, and you may get the fruit washed without injury, provided care has been taken with it all along the line, 
but if you have a lot of injured fruit coming in from the grove and put it through the washers, you will give it ten chances to one to be made more sub¬ 
ject to decay. 

Mr. Hart: Now, take the matter of clipper cutting or long stems. Don’t you find a marked difference between dif¬ 
ferent varieties of oranges in regard to that? Take the pineapple orange; there is no need of anyone clipper cutting a pineapple orange or of getting long stems. 

In California, I noticed that the stem of the orange is in more of a pit; the.or¬ 
ange is rough around the calyx and is very subject to clipper cutting, making it much more difficult to clip the stems close; therefore they do double clipping. 
The more careful growers and shippers have their fruit clipped twice. It seems to me that would be entirely useless with the Florida orange, as grown in most por¬ 
tions of the State. 

A great many have told me it was im¬ 
possible to get their fruit clipped prop¬ 
erly. I work twelve to fifteen hands, but it isn’t very often I have to* discharge a man because he does not do his work right. I sometimes find good workers who are mentally weak and in two in¬ 
stances I decided that it was impossible to teach them, to do good picking, but as a general thing I have no difficulty in training men so that there will not be 


more than one or two per cent, of long stem oranges. 

When these go into the washer, every one of them is examined. Either the eye or the thumb or the finger gets into* the calyx and if the stem is long it goes into a box to be gone over and clipped before being washed. 

I think it is safe to say that if the fruit is picked properly and washed properly with a Warner washer, it does not do it any injury to be washed. I have tested it repeatedly in the years gone by, wash¬ 
ing some and leaving some unwashed, 
and putting the twO' side by side, and in every instance so far, the washed fruit has stood up the best. 

I am afraid of brush washers. They may be all right, but I am afraid of them. 
I am not advertising the Warner washer, 
but I have tested that more thoroughly than any other and I believe it is abso¬ 
lutely safe if properly handled, but it is not properly handled in many cases. 
Either the operators do not gauge the fruit so that there is the proper holding back or resistance to its going through, 
or it is overloaded; some rivet head or other roughness inside the cylinder is not looked after and done away with, long stems are overlooked or too little water is used. The principle is simply a lift¬ 
ing up and rolling* down of both sponges and fruit, and with right conditions no harm can result. 

I believe a great deal of the injury in the washers is in the improper handling of the washers themselves. 

Mr. Stubenrauch: I do not doubt that you are right. I can cite an exam¬ 
ple that came under my own notice. Out in California we were able to compare 



54 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


the same machine being handled by two different parties. It happened that in one place a machine was causing consider¬ 
able—that is, we were getting a large per¬ 
centage of decayed fruit from the lot washed with that machine. The house had great faith in the machine itself, but we were almost ready to condemn it. We don’t, as a rule, advocate or condemn any machine. However, we happened to run across a case of the same machine being used with practically no decay at all in another part of the State. This as you see, brings us back to the old question of the “man behind the gun.” 

Now, as to the matter of long stems; 
that is a very important matter. Your fruit is very tender; much more so than the California fruit; full of juice and thin skinned. In the washing, the or¬ 
anges are knocking against each other; if there is a single orange with a long and jagged stem, it may do a whole lot of damage. 

Another matter comes to* my mind, and that is the clippers. You have to watch out very carefully to keep them in good condition. You will find that your work will be much more satisfactory if the clippers are kept sharp and close so that you do not have a jagged stem. We find a great deal of difference when the clip¬ 
per is kept tight instead of loose and dull. 
When the clipper is in such bad shape that the stem is broken off instead of clean cut, it leaves a sharp point or points that will do a great deal of injury. 

Mr. Hart: I think it makes a great difference as to the clippers you use. I 
have clippers which have been sent to me to test. I won’t say that I have had sam¬ 
ples of every kind of clipper, but I have 


had a good many. I have not reported on but one or two of them because I have found that they were not properly made. 
A great many of them have the bevel side on the side next the orange and it would be so long that you could not get close enough to the orange to cut it off prop¬ 
erly. To 1 get that bevel just right seems to be the most difficult thing for the man¬ 
ufacturers to do. 

Mr. Stubenrauch: I don’t think anv 

« 

of them get it just right, Mr. Hart. I 
have never seen one that was just right. 

Mr. Hart: I attacked that problem and got results that were pretty satisfac¬ 
tory, but afterwards there was careless¬ 
ness and the clippers were not kept in first class shape. To get the best results, 
the clippers must be given attention, but if the clippers are made right, you will escape getting the clipper cut fruit. 

Mr. Temple: Mr. Hart stated that while he had had no experience with the brush washer, he does not like it. Now, 
I would not discuss the brush washer if 
I was not familiar with it and had not used it. I have used two all winter. On one occasion, when some tests were made, 
some fruit was packed, unwashed; other fruit was packed, washed through the brush washers. At the end of three weeks we opened the fruit and found three decayed oranges in the box of un¬ 
washed fruit and two in the box of washed fruit. After the fruit was open¬ 
ed and examined, it stood in the pack¬ 
ing house for more than two weeks and finally they asked me what to do with the brush-washed fruit. I told them to re¬ 
pack it and send it to a hospital in Or¬ 
lando. We didn’t want to ship re-packed fruit. They repacked the fruit, sent it 


9 


FLORIDA (STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


53 


to the hospital, but it seems they had just received a consignment of other fruit 
' sent to them. It stayed around the hos¬ 
pital for awhile, and they finally turned it over to a grocery store to sell the fruit and turn the money over to them, as they needed the money more than the fruit. 

When I discovered that a grocery store was selling some of our fruit at re¬ 
tail, I looked into the matter to see how they got hold of it, and traced back and found out that it was the self-same box of fruit. I watched very closely the sale of that fruit to find what percentage of decay showed up in it. The fruit was all sold at retail, taking probably two weeks in the sale, and while the unwashed fruit showed almost one-half decay, the re¬ 
packed, washed fruit did not have a sin¬ 
gle sign of decay when it was sold here seven weeks after it was originally pack¬ 
ed. 

Mr. Kilgore: We had a washing ex¬ 
periment in our packing house which turned out practically the same. The company got in a new brush washer. We were afraid to use it, but to get it “bro¬ 
ken in” we washed the fruit in a car which had been standing on our siding for some time. After the oranges were washed, the water was pretty greasy. To see how the experiment worked, we pack¬ 
ed a few crates of the washed and of the unwashed fruit. The unwashed fruit rotted very badly and the washed fruit rotted very little. 

Mr. Stubenrauch: Your washed 

fruit was probably selected fruit. Of course, in that case it would be hard to make a fair comparison. 

Mr. Kilgore : There was no selection. 

Mr. Stubenrauch: I think all of this 


discussion confirms the facts brought by our work regarding washing. All of the gentlemen who have shown that they are not getting decay following washing are in a class of handlers far above the gen¬ 
eral average, and the handling of the fruit in their houses is being very care¬ 
fully done. Our results show, both here in Florida, and in California, that every extra process or handling that has to be given the fruit is a place where injury is liable to occur, and that where these processes are necessary to place the fruit in marketable condition, the necessity for extreme care becomes doubly important. 

Mi*. Stockbridge: Speaking about the additional care that has so much to do with results. The packing of fruit cer¬ 
tainly has a great influence on the amount of decay. I would mention that I have always taken pretty good care of my fruit and yet in spite of ordinary precau¬ 
tions, the percentages of decay were quite large. My crop of 1908 showed that the average percentage of decay was between 15 per cent, and 20 per cent., 
and yet my fruit was pretty well put up, 
too, and I suppose that as the average man goes, I put my fruit up about as well as the best of them and took about the same precautions. 

Now, after attending the meeting of the society at Daytona last year, and hearing the report of the committee on the investigation of the packing methods of California, I went to my grove and talked the matter over with my superin¬ 
tendent and when we came to ship the next crop, that is, the crop of 1909, I 
made a careful test of what I hoped were better methods. I shipped a carload to 
Atlanta and had it opened by three or 



56 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


four commission men. There were sixty- 
five boxes out of the car I opened my¬ 
self personally, and out of the sixty-five boxes there was not a single decayed or¬ 
ange. I don’t suppose out of the whole car there were forty decayed oranges. 
We did not wash the fruit, but we used the clippers distributed by the society last year and kept them sharp, and every man who went into the grove or packing 


house, wore gloves. Every man’s finger nails were kept short and protected. The result was a saving of about 15 per cent, 
in decayed fruit. 

It was my fruit that was chosen for the Taft banquet at Atlanta. They searched all over the city to get fruit they thought was good enough, and fin¬ 
ally purchased twenty-eight boxes of my fruit for that occasion. 


Methods of Citrus Culture 


C. H. Thompson. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen: 

While I have reason to question the good judgment of the committee in put¬ 
ting me on the program for a paper on this important subject, as there are others who are better qualified, yet as one who is vitally interested in the citrus industry, 
I shall not shirk my duty, and trust that what I may offer may be a help to some one engaged in the industry. 

I have little that is new to offer, as the method here advocated to a greater or lesser degree is followed by a large num¬ 
ber of the growers of the State. 

Having been in the business for many years, and having met with a fair meas¬ 
ure of success, I think I am justified in advising my fellow growers to seriously consider the method as here set forth. 

What I may say applies to that char¬ 
acter of soil known as the high pine land, 
and while it may apply successfully to other types of soil I am not advocating it for such, for my experience has been confined to the high pine land. 

As you well know there is very little natural fertility in such soil, but it acts as a fine anchorage for the trees, and many of us prefer to give our trees just the food we wish them to assimilate. By so doing we think we make a superior quality of fruit. This superiority will be 


governed by the knowledge of the grower, 
and his practice in caring for his groves. 

While the high pine land is deficient in plant food it has many fine qualities, 
among the most important being its re¬ 
sistance to drouth, as it is a well known fact that groves on such lands will not suffer nearly so much in a long contin¬ 
ued drouth, as groves on, heavier and lower lands. Such soil also is very easy of cultivation, and to keep in good me¬ 
chanical condition. 

We take it for granted some one may read these lines who has in mind the planting of a grove, so would advise the careful selecting* of good ground and lo¬ 
cation. A soil with clay a few feet un¬ 
der the surface with good drainage is an ideal condition. If it is land that has never been cultivated, and I prefer such for a grove, there will likely be some na¬ 
tive timber on it. The first important step is to completely clear the land of all trees, stumps and roots. If these are left in the grove to be removed later they will likely be for years an annoyance and a nuisance. Put the ground in thorough preparation by deep plowing and cultiva¬ 
tion, then plant good strong thrifty trees in rows thirty feet apart, and twenty-five feet in the row. This may seem, while trees are small, like a waste of ground. 



58 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


but in a few years you will see the ad¬ 
vantage of being able to get through your grove with wagon and other farm imple¬ 
ments, without damage to the outhang- 
ing limbs. 

You will not make much of a mistake if you confine your choice of varieties to the Pineapple and Valencia late oranges, 
and Silver Cluster, Walters or some oth¬ 
er good sized and shaped grapefruit. 

While an orange tree can be transplant¬ 
ed any month of the year, I prefer plant¬ 
ing about the first to- the fifteenth of 
January, always using a liberal quantity of water when planting; and unless you can water these young trees at intervals 
-during the dry weeks that follow, until the rainy season opens, you had better not take the trouble to plant them, for you run the risk of losing some and stunt¬ 
ing the balance. 

When planting, incorporate a little fer¬ 
tilizer in the soil and use only a limited 
^quantity the first year increasing the 
- quantity each year, using a good quality 
< of orange tree fertilizer. For about three 
-years keep the tree rows clean by fre- 
vquent cultivation during the growing sea¬ 
son, but avoid cultivating late in the fall and winter. Space between rows can be planted to any good cover crops to shade the ground and build up the soil. 

For bearing groves I advise keeping the top soil, from caking by frequent har¬ 
rowing with Acme harrow. This, in the spring of the year while dry, should be constant, and after rains, harrow to con¬ 
serve the moisture. By July or beginning of rainy season stop harrowing and let grass grow. Do not let the grass or weeds grow too rank under and near the trees, but keep it mowed down. If grove 


is in good condition and soil rich, you can cut and remove grass for hay; but if soil needs the vegetation, or is lacking in humus, better build the soil by leaving hay on the ground, and buy your hay or raise it from outside lands. 

While one can raise trees for a few years and keep them in a fairly thrifty condition without fertilizer, by cultivation and raising leguminous crops to build up the soil, it is utterly impossible to make the trees fruit without a liberal applica¬ 
tion of a good fertilizer. 

For young trees I prefer a fertilizer made up of from four to five per cent, 
ammonia, five to six per cent, phosphoric acid and six to eight per cent, potash, ap¬ 
plied two or three times from spring up to September. 

For bearing groves I prefer to- give a fair application in February, before the swelling of the buds, of fertilizer made up of about 5 per cent, ammonia (half of which from nitrate of soda, the quicker acting, and half from sulphate of am¬ 
monia, the slower acting form), 6 per cent, phosphoric acid and 6 per cent, sul¬ 
phate of potash. 

In the latter part of May or first of 
June a liberal quantity of fertilizer with 
2 per cent, sulphate of ammonia, 6 to 7 
per cent, phosphoric acid and 10 to 12 
per cent, sulphate of potash. 

In the middle to last of November, my third and last application, a liberal quan¬ 
tity 2 to 4 per cent, sulphate of ammonia, 
6 to 7 per cent, phosphoric acid and 10 to 
12 per cent, sulphate of potash: the year¬ 
ly quantity being about forty pounds to every 10 boxes of fruit. 


FLORIDA /STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


59 


The quantity of. ammonia for each ap¬ 
plication. will have to be governed by the condition and need of the trees. 

While there is a growing tendency to¬ 
wards governing our insect enemies by introducing their natural enemies among them; yet this will not always accomplish the desired result. 


I have kept the scale under good control by fungus and lady birds. 

I have failed thus far to discover any natural enemy of the rust mite, and in order to have desirably bright fruit I 
spray three or four times during the sea¬ 
son with sulphur solution. 

Winter Haven, Fla. 


E. S. Williams. 


Mr. President f Ladies and Gentlemen : 

If there ever was a case of “many men, many minds,” I am sure it is in the handling of a. citrus grove. In view of this fact, I'll merely treat the subject from; my point of view, as I am sure we will have some discussions embodying views and methods vastly different from mine. In the handling of a citrus grove one must be governed by his own pe¬ 
culiar conditions as hardly the same con¬ 
ditions prevail in any two groves. Then, 
besides, we all have our little pet theories, 
which may possess more or less merit. 
The best place to start with this subject is with the raw land, which should be the best obtainable. Then be careful of each step in its development, to avoid, if pos¬ 
sible, doing anything that it may cost you dearly to undo. The old adage of 
“an ounce of prevention 1 ' is equally ap¬ 
plicable here. In clearing pine land, I 
clear off all the undergrowth, burn the saw palmetto roots, and save the ashes to be scattered over the ground later. 
Then I cut the pine trees, bore the stumps with an inch and a half augur, which has had the shank lengthened to about 31-2 


feet over all, put in sufficient 60 per cent, 
dynamite to open up the stump well, then put fire in and burn the stump out, cut¬ 
ting up the logs and piling them on the burning stump, unless I have some other use for them. It pays to- get the pine trees absolutely off the land, “lock, stock, 
and barrel.” After burning the stump as best we can, men with grub hoes and axes take out the remaining roofs down to a depth sufficient to allow a plow to run. I then line off the tree rows and windrow all remaining trash, such as pine tops, underbrush, palmetto' leaves, 
etc., half way between the tree rows, and then break up the tree row with a turn plow having a good cutter on. I prefer a one-horse plow, as it cuts narrow fur¬ 
rows and consequently leaves ground in better shape. The best plow that I have ever found’for this work is a Brinley No. 
1, Prairie, with a “fine”, cutter. It does fine work, is strong and light, and a good able bodied horse or mule can pull it very readily. Our land is rather low and com¬ 
pact, with clay subsoil, which holds wa¬ 
ter during the wet season, so we have to bed our trees, with water furrows be¬ 
tween rows, leading to cross ditches; con- 




60 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


sequently I throw two furrows together for the tree row, and continue turning dirt towards the two furrows till I get a strip about ten feet wide. This leaves the trash undisturbed on the unplowed middle. Then I stake off for the trees and set them, move the trash in between the trees, and finish plowing out the mid¬ 
dle. I use a two horse disc harrow on all the plowing to pulverize and smooth up the ground. I mulch the trees at time of planting, and always put about i 1-2 
inches more dirt to the tree than should be there permanently when trees are set in winter, this helps retain the moisture through the spring drought, and at time of first working after the drought is over and tree is established, this surplus dirt is worked away, leaving the tree with the crown roots just covered. In preparing hammock land, I modify the above meth¬ 
ods to suit the growth on the land. I 
leave, on an average, four or five palmet¬ 
to trees to each orange tree, and grad¬ 
ually thin these out as trees get larger, 
and original supply of trash has rotted away. Live oaks, water oaks, etc., I top and girdle. When plowing the first time, 
I keep two men, with grub hoes and axes, 
following the plow, to remove all roots, 
etc., that had not been previously re¬ 
moved. In this way, at the next plowing, 
it should plow like old land. I find that young trees grow off much better and are much less apt to become hide bound where they have partial shade. In case of a hide bound tree, the point of a knife blade run the length of the trunk, split¬ 
ting the bark, and a little extra feed, will usually effect a cure. As regards leaving palmetto trees in a grove, to be removed later, some persons raise the objection 


that they are difficult to get down with¬ 
out damage to- the orange tree, after the orange tree has attained much size. This can be easily done in the following way. 
Take a ladder say 16 or 18 feet long, 
place against trunk of palmetto tree- to be removed, on side opposite to which you wish the tree to fall. Take a rope 
(about 3-8 or 1-2 inch) and tie in a slip noose around the trunk of the tree as high above top of ladder as is convenient; 
and push it up the trunk of the tree as far as you can, with a pole having a fork or similar contrivance on top end, then have a person on the ground tighten on the rope. Then, with a short, one-man cross-cut saw, saw the tree as nearly off as is safe at a point that is convenient above the top of the ladder; then get down and remove 'the ladder, and with the rope the top can be pulled just where wanted, and very seldom will an orange tree ever be injured. The snag left standing will do no harm, but it can be easily cut down if it is desirable to get it out o f the way. In setting trees, I have had fine results by thoroughly mixing 1 
or 2 lbs. of fine ground steamed bone in the soil before setting the tree. Other than this I give the trees no fertilizer for a year, depending upon plenty of mulch and trash to furnish what they need for that time. Then I give them about 1 lb. 
each early in the spring and another pound each in the summer, and continue plowing till I get the land shaped up to suit, when all plowing is cut out. After that our dependence is on hoe working the trees in circles and using mowing ma¬ 
chines once or twice per year, as occa¬ 
sion demands, on the unworked part. 
When the trees get large enough to shade 


FLORIDA ,ST ATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


61 


the ground sufficiently to keep weeds and grass from choking them, we depend on the mowing machine entirely, and put part of the price of the extra labor saved into extra fertilizer. By this method we get along with less labor, have healthy trees and fruit of fine quality, and are troubled very little with rust mite. No doubt we shall have some able discussions later on the subjects of fertilizing and spraying, so I’ll not attempt to discuss them. Of course no iron clad rules can be laid down for the care of a grove, as soils and conditions are so varied, but my general rule would be, put land in best possible shape when trees are very young, and cultivate just as little as pos¬ 
sible thereafter. I am a great believer in humus, and think that one should get something growing to shade the ground as quickly as possible and later be con¬ 
verted into humus. As the trees get old¬ 
er and original supply is being exhausted, 
haul in trash, woods grass, etc., to take its place. When I mention muck, no doubt our worthy president and some others will smile, as I recently heard one of them allude to' it as “harmless amuse¬ 
ment,” but we are using muck with most excellent results, though I must say that we have a fair supply of exceptional muck. I have seen lots of muck which I 
think I might allude to as harmless amuse¬ 
ment, unless it had maiden cane in it, 
when I’d omit the “harmless.” I believe there is a growing tendency towards less cultivation, but fear that it is still being much overdone in many citrus groves 
People may criticise the apparent unkempt condition of your grove, but the know¬ 
ledge of the extra size of your bank ac¬ 
count will more than offset the stings of 


criticism, and after all, with citrus grow¬ 
ers, as with all others, the money is what we are after. If, in starting a grove, one is seriously handicapped for lack of time or funds, good results can be secured by grubbing circles in which to set the tree, and then gradually breaking up the remaining ground, getting it all broken by the time the tree has been set two years.* But, using what method you will, 
don't destroy any more humus-producing material than can possibly be helped,— 
the day will come when it will be sorely needed. If I were caring for a grove on very sandy soil, an Acme harrow would be the most severe tool that I’d put into it. As to varieties of citrus trees to set, confine yourself to few varieties, and those the very best suited to your locality. 

We are confining our plantings almost entirely to Pineapple and Valencia Late oranges and a selected strain of common 
Florida grapefruit, budded on sour or¬ 
ange stock. I find that under usual cbn- 
ditions a good thrifty year old bud on a two year old stock gives the best satisfac¬ 
tion. Large trees suffer a much greater shock when transplanted, and may re¬ 
quire more careful attention to get them well started off. Don’t plant sour stocks in grove form, to be budded later. This is too slow and a stand of buds -is too un¬ 
certain. 


DISCUSSION. 

Prof. Hume: We certainly ought to have a spirited discussion after this topic. 
Suppose you start the ball rolling, Mr. 
Hart. I think your ideas with regard to the use of ammonia are sufficient to get this discussion into- full swing. 



62 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Mr. Hart: Mr. President, when you once get the convention to talking on this subject, I think there will be plenty said, 
because as a rule there is not time enough given to allow each one who wants to speak on it, time to do so. 

I really haven’t anything special in mind to say at this time. Just now, I 
would rather have a receptive mind and wait for some one else to say something about it. 

Just a minute, though. One little mat¬ 
ter I noticed in the papers that have just been presented, is to avoid cultivating in the spring. I cultivate early in the sea¬ 
son pretty thoroughly with a Cutaway harrow, and later, when the drought is on, I use a weeder or what is practically a horse rake, running over the ground often. 

When the rains begin, I let the grass and weeds grow, or plant legumes. 

I apply my fertilizer in November and cultivate very lightly then, and so far as my experience goes, I have never seen any bad results. I believe that cultiva¬ 
tion in the colder months will start the tree out sooner. I also think that the ap¬ 
plication of fertilizer at that time will re¬ 
tard it. When I put my fertilizer on in 
November, I like to have it worked into the soil a little ; therefore I give it a slight cultivation; just enough to put it under the surface. I think that fertilization late in the season helps the root growth a great deal but does not materially has¬ 
ten the top growth. Of course, it is not desirable to hasten the growth when there is danger of a cold spell. 

Fertilizing in November, I think, coun¬ 
teracts the effect of the little cultivation necessary to work it into the surface, and 


there is no hastening of the growth or making the tree tender in the winter. 

Mr. Brown: I do not quite understand 
Mr. Hart’s theory that the fact of fer¬ 
tilizing will retard the growth of the tree. 

Mr. Hart: You know that the root system of your trees grows freely in the winter. If you give them fertilizer in 
November, the root growth will be more vigorous. The top is not likely to start until the root growth about ceases. In that way, I think the fertilizing at that time rather retards than hastens the starting of the tops. 

Mr. Brown: What is the composition of the fertilizer? 

Mr. Hart: I give them my regular formula; that is, a first class orange tree fertilizer; about 4 per cent, ammonia, 6 
per cent, available phosphoric acid and 10 
to 12 per cent, potash. 

Mr. Williams: What proportion of fertilizer do you give them in the fall as compared to the spring and summer ap¬ 
plication ? 

M<r. Hart: I don’t fertilize in the spring until about the time the rains com¬ 
mence in the early summer. I do not think I fertilize as heavily as a great many do. The largest application that I 
ever made to any of my trees is twenty- 
four pounds in a year; twelve pounds at a time, two times a year. I give them pretty nearly the same each time. My land is good land and I do not think it requires as much fertilizer as pine land generally does. Mine is what is gener¬ 
ally called gray hammock. 

In addition to this, I give them an ap¬ 
plication of lime; and I have a man right now hauling in humus or leaf mold from 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


63 


the hammock. About every two years I 
give the grove a good coating of leaves and trash. 

Mr. Temple: Mr. Thompson in his paper spoke of spraying with the sulphur solution two or three times a year. Now, 
I think we all know Mr. Hart’s position on spraying. Not trying to drag in the question of spraying or any one spray, I 
want to say that I happen to know from visual observation that Mr. Hart has no rust in his grove. I also know that Mr. 
Hart does not spray. Will Mr. Hart tell us how he gets bright fruit without spraying; whether by cultivation, fertili¬ 
zation or what? I would also like to ask in addition whether Mr. Thompson has used the sulphur or the sulphur and soda or sulphur and lime solutions, how often, 
and the results obtained from one as compared with the other; in other words, 
what I am trying to get at is what pre¬ 
caution to take tO' insure getting the most bright fruit. 

Mr. Hart: Replying to Mr. Temple’s question with regard to rust mite. I to¬ 
day heard it said that “citrus culture is not an exact science.” I wish I had less reason to realize this truth. 

I cannot attempt to say positively what action on my part or what element in the soil or condition of the atmosphere causes the results. I will say, though, that to my knowledge I have not shipped a gen uine rusty orange this year; haven’t had it to ship. I shipped a few that I marked russet oranges, but that rust was merely a manifestation of melanose, which gives it a rusty appearance. But not one or¬ 
ange, that I know of, has shown the re¬ 
sult of the work of rust mite. 


Years ago, one of my groves produced all russets, and they were such vigorous russets, or, rather, the rust was so vigor¬ 
ous, that the fruit was very small and black to such an extent that quite a por¬ 
tion of the crop I did not ship at all, and was much ashamed to> ship the rest of it; 
but I have noticed that on that grove this year not a rusty orange showed up from any cause. 

I have noticed that there is less rust on the hammock than on the pine land, 
especially where clean culture has been practiced; therefore, my practice has been to try to turn the soil into that as much like hammock soil as possible, raising grass, weeds, etc., and not taking them away from the land after they are cut, 
putting much humus into the soil, culti¬ 
vating early in the season while the drought is on, stopping it when the rains come, then using only the scythe until No¬ 
vember. 

The results in my groves are there, and anyone can see them, but I cannot say positively any more than the rest of you just what has brought them about. When results are right, I hold to the methods that bring them. 

Mr. Thompson: In regard to sulphur, I 
would say that I use very successfully and have used for two or three seasons, 
a solution or mixture of sulphur. First, 
I make a paste like that the paper hang¬ 
ers use to put paper on the wall. I have a regular formula for making it in large quantities. Then I take three gallons of that paste and mix in it seven pounds of Flowers of Sulphur. I use the Flow¬ 
ers because that is the lighter form. Then this whole mixture is stirred in fifty gal¬ 
lons of water. It mixes very readily, 


64 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


and it is kept stirred up while it is being sprayed on the trees. It carries the sul¬ 
phur for a long time. The paste makes it adhere to the foliage, and you can smell the sulphur after a rain on a warm day, long after you would think it had all washed off. 

I have also used the lime and sulphur, 
the regular formula, but it is very disa¬ 
greeable to handle. Then I have used the caustic soda, making up a stock solu¬ 
tion of thirty pounds of sulphur and twenty of soda and using two quarts of this stock to fifty gallons of water. 

However, the spray mixture I men¬ 
tioned first is, in my opinion, just as good as any of the others, and much simpler to use. 

I start to spray when the orange is very small; just about as big as the end of your finger, and I spray about three times during the season, I judge the time of spraying by the condition of rust on the orange. If the rust mite is in¬ 
creasing, I spray. Then I give a rea¬ 
sonable time to see what effect the spray¬ 
ing has had, and if I think the rust mite has not been checked enough, I spray again. 

Mr. Mead: I am convinced that the treatment of the roots can have no ef¬ 
fect whatever on the starting of the tree. 
Anyone who has noticed will find that the buds start earlier on the north side of an orange tree; the twigs and buds having been subjected to greater cold re¬ 
spond more quickly to the ' oncoming warmth of spring, but the ground and 
" roots and cultivation have nothing to do with it, being alike for all sides of the tree. 


Snow has been piled around fruit trees in the north, keeping the ground frozen for a month after the rest of the orchard had warmed up, but these trees blossomed with the rest; branches resting on or partly covered with snow, bloomed at both ends, while the cooled buds re¬ 
mained dormant. 

I do not think that fertilizer or any other treatment of the ground that does not actually warm up the branches will have any effect on the time of starting in the spring. 

Mr. Porcher: I have had quite con¬ 
siderable experience in spraying. I have put forth the most strenuous efforts in combating the rust mite. I have used all kinds of different sprays. I have used sulphur solution. I have used the dust ap¬ 
plication and have found that the appli¬ 
cation of the dust made absolutely no difference; the mites would crawl up¬ 
wards dragging themselves by their four legs and dragging their tails behind them, 
so that they would leave a mark through the particles of sulphur. I have been seeking to do everything I could to ex¬ 
terminate the rust mite by natural ene¬ 
mies. I have seen some parts of the grove that seemed to be free from the rust mite without the aid of spraying, /and a few feet away would be trees infested with the pest. 

I have used humus in large quantities; 
over 1200 double horse loads were hauled this past season. I find that when you apply lime, as I do every three years, the rust mite is in excess. Where the ground is cultivated cleanly, it is absolutely im¬ 
possible to control the rust mite with any spraying. Where we use the humus we find less of the rust mite. The only dif- 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


65 


ficulty is that where you get a sufficient quantity of mulching and humus on the soil, you are apt to give your trees a lit¬ 
tle too much rich food. They are indulg¬ 
ing in late suppers, lobster, champagne, 
and so forth. They are apt to get indi¬ 
gestion and get very sick, and you have trouble. 

I have land that ranges from rich low hammock up to scrub and pine land, and some land that you gentlemen would turn your heads away from (if you didn’t see the trees). Saw palmetto land, with hard pan. But on that same land I have grown some of the best trees I have. It is some of the most satisfactory land that 
I now have to handle. 

I am today asking the question of this meeting, and want to bring out from Mr. 
Schnarr as to his spray, which he claims will control the rust mite. Scientifically, 
I think we can bring out from our profes¬ 
sors that no oil spray has been known that will handle the rust mite. I have used the resin wash, whale oil soap, 
kerosene emulsion, etc., without effect. 
Sulphur seems to be the only thing that will control the rust mite at all. 

We have also with us a gentleman rep¬ 
resenting an English firm which has made a big demonstration in supplying a sheep dip, and they have a spray which they call Cooper’s V. I. which has done good work on the Mytilaspis citricola, or long scale and the red scale. It cleaned them out, and also the white fly in the larval and pupal stages were destroyed. 
Also, I could not find an egg that was not killed, although they do not claim that the spray will destroy the eggs.. They go fur¬ 
ther, and say that the spray is a fungi¬ 


cide. I think it will probably handle the rust mite. 

We begin to spray when the orange is the size of a small marble. We pay no attention to any regular time of spraying, 
but go ahead every three weeks and spray until we ship the fruit. We don’t finish shipping, sometimes, until April, so you can see what that spraying means. Oft¬ 
entimes the rust mite does not affect the fruit at all; it will seem to be thoroughly cleaned out; other times it will make its appearance early in the season and I hate to think about what a hard time we have to combat it. 

Mr. Stevens: I would like to ask Mr. 
Thompson if he noticed any change in the texture of the rind of the orange in using the soda sulphur solution and the other sulphur solutions. 

Mr. Thompson: I cannot say that I 
did. 

Mr. Stevens: When the sulphur and soda solution was first put into general use, it was claimed that it improved the texture of the rind; made it thinner and of a finer texture. Possibly I deceived myself, but I thought it did, too. It seemed to make the rind smoother. 

Mr. Thompson: I have never used so much of the lime and sulphur as the paste and sulphur. I cannot see any dif¬ 
ference in the orange. 

Mr. Tabor: I would like to ask Mr. 
Porcher what he has to sell his fruit for to cover the cost of spraying and of the sulphur. 

M,r. Porcher: Mr. Tabor’s question is bringing up a question that will come later. His point is well taken. The spraying when done ordinarily is much less expensive. 


66 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


I have had to rig up two complete plants, and the expense is about $5.00 
per acre. I have had to rig up two, so that when one is not working, the other one can be used. With us, we allow the trees to grow clear down to the ground and don’t trim the lower branches off to leave a clear space underneath as you peo¬ 
ple generally do. Treating the groves as you do, it simplifies the matter of spray¬ 
ing very much. 

I use a two-horse team and the spray¬ 
ing apparatus is mounted on a platform and the man on the platform sprays the trees as the team moves. The lower branches of the trees are more often af¬ 


fected than the higher, especially with scale. 

As to price, I am not alone in having to bear the cost and meeting a successful market for carefully sprayed fruit. 

Mr. Warner: I have two different spraying outfits, also. One is made at 
Elmira and has a regular 2 1-2 horse 

power engine; the other is a marine en¬ 
gine in which I utilize the same class of pump. The two outfits are practically in¬ 
terchangeable. 

The wagon has the body made in such a way that the wheels will cut under. The wagon turns easily and pulls very easily. 
One animal can handle it without diffi¬ 
culty. 


REPORT ON THE METHODS OF PICKING AND SHIPPING CIT¬ 
RUS FRUITS. 


L. B. Skinner. 


Mr. President and Fellow 1 Members : 

The fire this morning stopped me right in the midst of my paper. I thought I 
would go over it again, but I haven’t had time. I am sorry Dr. Inman could not stay and give you the benefit of his ex¬ 
perience and observation. He says he never packed an orange in his life; there¬ 
fore he knows exacty how it ought to be done. 


The first thing in the field is the ecpup- 
ment of the picker. What shall we give him to pick in and what shall we give him to pick with? Now, until the Govern¬ 
ment sent their experts here, I did not know the danger of clipper cuts. I didn’t know what a clipper cut was until Mr. 
Tenney came into my grove about three years ago. We went through a box of the champion picker of the grove and we found about 40 per cent, of the fruit was 




FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


67 


clipper cut. When we came to realize the danger of clipper cut fruit, it did not take us long to cut it out as far as possi¬ 
ble. 

This year we started in with our pick¬ 
ing gang; fifteen pickers, an inspector and a foreman. The foreman is a fellow of decision; he knows what he wants and he intends to get it. The inspector, too, 
is a conscientious man. . Mr. Ramsey, 
Mr. Tenney and one other man came to my grove and went through box after box of my picking and failed to find one clipper cut. I tell you, I felt a lot better this time than I did three years ago. 

Now, in regard to the clippers: I 
show you here a little sketch of what I 
used altogether this year; probably Mr. 
Burton is familiar with the Kyle clipper. 
With this clipper, I believe it is almost im- 
posible, with any care at all, for a picker to injure an orange. These clippers are made in California; everything good seems to come from California—that is, 
almost everything. 

There is another that is equally as good; that is the Somner-Hart clipper. 

Next is the question of what to pick in. I have used baskets, I have used pick¬ 
ing shirts, I have used the California pick¬ 
ing sacks and find them all, in a measure, 
unsatisfactory. We have a picking shirt at Dunedin that I think is the best thing of its kind. It has a pouch with an open¬ 
ing so arranged as to let the fruit down into the box very easily, but that was un¬ 
satisfactory. The latter part of this sea¬ 
son I ran across a darky with a picking coat. I watched him picking with it and watched him empty the oranges out of it, 
and he said he liked it very well. All the 


men who could get them were using them. 
There is no receptacle in the front for the oranges at all, but they go around to the sides and the back. You know, a basket is often in the way in getting around the tree. Lots of times the men are often placed where it is impossible to keep the fruit from being injured. You can dis¬ 
charge men for careless picking, but it is a hard matter to get other men to take their places. It is a much simpler prop¬ 
osition to furnish them implements to do good work in the first place. If they have the proper facilities, nine men out of ten will do their work right, but to have your work done as you want it, you have to give them these facilities. 

With this picking coat, the fruit is put into the side. It is just like a picking shirt except that this receptacle runs clear around the back. The man can move all around the ladder any way he pleases and the oranges are so placed that they are not in his way and it does not inconveni¬ 
ence him at all. Then, too, the opening is so placed that he cannot throw the fruit into the coat. 

There is a hook underneath the lap of 

% 

the coat, and when the coat is full, he un¬ 
snaps the ring and pours the fruit out one side; then he unsnaps the ring on the other side and lets the fruit on that side out. Then he buttons it up and goes back to work. The coat in the instance I spoke of was made out of bedticking. 

A member: Can you buy them already made, or do you have to make them, and have you ever used them? 

Mir. Skinner: No, I have not used them myself, but saw them used by one of 


5 





68 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


my neighbors, a member of the citrus exchange. 

LONG STEMS. 

There is no necessity for my enlarging upon the subject of long stems. I men¬ 
tioned long stems in the presence of Mr. 
Hart, and he looked perfectly shocked at the idea of anybody’s mentioning long stems. 

While we were out in California, M. 
Ramsey gave us a lecture at one of the most beautiful hotels in California, in which he spoke of the long stems as 
“murderers,” and that is a pretty good name for them. They never cease to do their bad work until they are delivered to the market. Almost every orange they touch has to suffer. I think the Hart clipper is just as good as the Kyle clip¬ 
per cutting short stems and not injuring the fruit on the opposite side from where you put the clippers. I don’t know of any other clippers that I would call so satisfac¬ 
tory. I think those good points are con¬ 
fined to those two. 

PICKING BOXES. 

Another thing I have had in mind, is to speak of the picking boxes. They are usually altogether too large. I think the picking box should not hold over half what the one in general use at the present time, holds. The fruit could be so much easier and I think much cheaper, han¬ 
dled. Now, it takes two men to handle one of them, but if we had a box half the size, one man could pretty generally do the same amount of work that it now 
.takes two. 


WASHING. 

When the fruit comes to the packing house, in most localities of the State we have to prepare to have it washed. I vis¬ 
ited Mr. Temple’s house when it was in operation and was very greatly impressed with the soaking tank. I watched Mr. 
Temple’s sales gradually getting better and better, and I decided to go up to Win¬ 
ter Park and see if I could find out the reason why. I went into his packing house. Maybe some of you know that we had a frost last winter. Of course, very few places in the State were affected by this frost, but still we had a frost. Some of us knew that we had some light fruit, 
and we did our best to eliminate it. We would instruct our men to cull out the light fruit, and they would judge of the weight of oranges until finally from fa¬ 
tigue they could not tell a heavy ; or¬ 
ange from a light one, and we would find a good orange with the bad and a bad one with the good. The men tried to help us out, but it is simply an impossibility not to make mistakes. But at Mr. Tem¬ 
ple’s place, he was able to cull every light orange out of his pack. When the or¬ 
anges were put up at market, the buy¬ 
ers knew that they are getting heavy fruit when they paid for heavy fruit. 

The light fruit were eliminated in the soaking tank. The process is very inter¬ 
esting. A man stands by the tank with a long ladle, and if an orange is floating a little too high, he spoons it right out. If an orange was floating, but a light touch with the ladle would send it down, and it came up slowly it was all right, but if it came up like a cork, it was ladeled out. 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


69 


We should select a washer that does the work thoroughly and carefully: that is the main thing. We simply have to wash out fruit and we have to do it care¬ 
fully and thoroughly if we are going to please the trade. The washers in Mr. 
Temple’s house certainly clean the fruit and the results have shown that no injury has been done to the fruit, apparently. 

There are some washers that will wash grapefruit, some that will wash oranges, 
and I hope there will be some washers that will wash tangerine. Each grower has to settle the question for himself as to which washer he will use, and I think by choosing one which does the work according to his own satisfaction, the question is solved. 

DRYERS. 

After the fruit comes from the washer and before it goes to the sizer, it has to be dried. You are all familiar with the methods of Mr. Temple’s work. He runs the fruit into the rack overhead and ex¬ 
hausts the air, forces it in and draws it out; there are so many thousand cubic feet of air passed through there per min¬ 
ute. Anything as elaborate as his pro¬ 
cess is not within the reach of all of us. 
In my house we have installed a dryer that has been working very successfully for two or three years. It is not a very large dryer and we are unable to run through over three hundred boxes a day. 
This dryer is about thirty feet long. The fruit comes into one side on to a convey¬ 
or which moves down very slowly; then it comes back to the brusher and sizer. 
During the time the fruit is passing, 
which occupies 20 minutes, there is a 


blast of air going over it. It is just the natural air taken from up near the roof of the house. This air is blown in there by a strong blower and there is a contin¬ 
uous stream of air going in and coming out all the time. In damp weather, we use a fire and blow the heated air in and over the fruit. 

GRADING. 

Now we come to the grading. It is un¬ 
necessary for me to describe to you the grading appliances as shown in Mr. Tem¬ 
ple’s house. It is a system which will soon be in general use. The old methods of doing things in Florida are fast pass¬ 
ing away. If we are going to keep up with Mr. Temple (we know Mir. Temple is going to keep up with the best of them, 
anywhere) we are going to have to grade our fruit correctly. 

Our custom has been to ship under a brand; there is my own brand, for exam¬ 
ple, the Dunedin brand. Suppose we pack a car of russets, goldens and brights. Sup¬ 
pose there are sixty per cent bright; it all goes as the Dunedin Brand. Now, 
Mr. Temple has adopted the method by which the brand under which it is shipped indicated the grade of his fruit. His brights are shipped under the “Anger’ 
brand; his Angels are all bright; next comes the “Bull Dog’’ brand, which indi¬ 
cates another grade of fruit; then the 
“Camel” brand, I believe. Now, a man who quotes the camel brand does not have to say anything more; if he quotes out the Bull Dog brand, the buyer can tell to a certainty what he is getting and pay¬ 
ing for. 


70 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


I must admit that at first I did not like it, but the more I know of it, the more I 
am impressed with its value. 

Another thing I must mention, is that we do not grade our fruit enough. We make two grades, and it would often be worth a great deal more to us to make three grades. 

Out in California, they grade their fruit away up high. All their fruit isn't that way, by any means; only a small per¬ 
centage of it. Their fancy brands sell high and the other grades try to climb up to it. A comparatively small percentage of their fruit grades up high and we hear a great deal about it and we judge that the greater part of their crop is classed under this grade. The commoner brands are put on the market, and we don’t hear very much about them; they don’t make much noise about their “camel” brands. 
Mr. Temple, on the contrary, puts his fruit out as just exactly what it is, and is not ashamed of any of it. It is just like having three houses to sell; one is a fine house for $10,000, the next is a smaller house for $5,000, and the third a cottage for $2,000. The owner is not at all ashamed of his cottage because his big, fine house sells for $10,000; it is just as much a part of his business to< sell the small house for what it is worth as it is to sell the big one. 

I think the brand ought to indicate the grade; it ought to be stamped upon the box; it ought to be stamped on every wrapper that goes on the fruit clear through the box to the bottom. 


SHIPPING. 

Now, about packing the fruit in the cars. The boxes should be stacked up in the California way. It is unnecessary to describe this here, as it has been taken up in several different meetings before. 
Packing the fruit in this way, there is complete ventilation through the whole car. There is a complete circulation of air through the car, and no matter how much the car is jolted about, the boxes remain stationary. I had a car of grape- 
fruit packed this way, once, that was in a wreck. It was a pretty bad wreck; I 
think the train must have been going about forty miles an hour for the track was torn up for three hundred feet, but the fruit in the car was practically unin¬ 
jured. 

Prof. Hume: Mr. Skinner has brought out a great many good points, but I be¬ 
lieve he knows something else that we haven’t got from his yet. I think a few questions would bring it out. 

A Member: I understand Mr. Skin¬ 
ner has a washing machine for oranges. 
I would like to have a description of it. 

Mr. Skinner: I devoted a good deal of time on my trip to California to look¬ 
ing up washers. The California people were very much afraid to tell us that they needed washers. They didn’t take us to the place where they did the washing. We went ourselves, however, and saw them doing it. At another place I saw' a very good washing machine. They have there very black, muddy fruit. The fruit from that neighborhood was shipped a great many years with the understanding that it would always have 15 per cent to 18 
per cent, decay. They changed their 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


71 


methods entirely, handled their fruit care¬ 
fully, and last year at the time we were in California, their sales were as near the top as anybody else. Their fruit was car¬ 
rying perfectly on account of the careful handling. 

By the way, I want to mention right here, that the National Packing Company is not icing a single car of fruit from Cal¬ 
ifornia. They are shipping the fruit packed so as to permit perfect ventilation, 
and are having perfect success. 

Now about that washer; we have lots of smutty fruit, we washed some of the fruit and finally abandoned washing be¬ 
cause the fruit was being so badly in¬ 
jured, and I didn’t like to ship it, as dirty and smutty as it was. I came up and looked at Mr. Temple’s packing house, 
but I did not find a washer that seemed to exactly meet my ideas. I made up my mind, after thinking it over, that I want¬ 
ed to get as near the motion of one’s hands in washing oranges, as possible; 
that is, I wanted a scrubbing motion and have the oranges turned at the same time. 
I think we have solved the problem and feel sure that we have a successful ma¬ 
chine that will wash grapefruit and or¬ 
anges and tangerines and handle them as carefully. 

The weight of the orange resting on the brushes is the only pressure it gets. 
The fruit runs down a cylinder brush about eight inches in diameter; as it goes down there is no other pressure but its own weight. At the same time, it rolls back against a flat brush which is moved back and forth by an eccentric, three inches. That turns the orange every time it moves, and when the orange comes out it is perfectly clean except for live scale. 


A Member: Does the fruit go through any water? 

Mr. Skinner: The water is sprinkled on it. 

Mr. Williams : We cannot put up any¬ 
thing as elaborate as that. We want some¬ 
thing cheaper for our packing house where we pack our own fruit. I am satisfied with a machine that will clean the orange and take off any scale. We haven’t the whitefly now, but we know we will have it in a short time. 

I would like to ask Mr. Skinner if his dryer is a solid belt of canvas or duck. 

Mr. Skinner: The one I have now is made with a sprocket chain on each side of a w'ide strip, say thirty inches. We rather think in the packing house that a cotton belt seems to absorb too much wa¬ 
ter; however, the cotton belt you saw at 
Mr. Temple’s would give less trouble. 
The air that is forced through would keep the belt dry. 

Now, the sprocket chain we have been using has been giving trouble, I am free to say that. If you get one sprocket more on one side of the chain than you do on the other, there certainly will be. 

There is no patent on this dryer, and I 
think Mr. Chase, Dr. Inman and one or two others have sent men there to get data about one thing and another prepara¬ 
tory to putting it up in their houses. I 
think I might be able to get this data pub¬ 
lished. 

Mr. Williams: When will the ma¬ 
chine be put on the market ? 

Mr. Skinner: I am getting material for 25 of the washers together, and sup- 


72 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


pose they can be assembled this summer. 

A Member: How many boxes can one of them run an hour? 

Mr. Skinner: I can’t tell you just now how many, but it will run a whole lot of them. My dryer was thirty feet long and three feet wide. There is a double run and it takes about twenty minutes for them to go through. Maybe you can fig¬ 
ure that out. 

Prof. Hume: I think the point brought out with regard to Mr. Skinner’s washing machine is extremely interesting and im¬ 
portant. 

We have all heard of the great success of the California Fruit Exchange. All of their work has been attempted in Flor¬ 
ida. It has met with a great deal of suc¬ 
cess, and we believe that it is doing great things for the State. The success of this exchange for the past winter has been, of course, largely dependent upon the men who have been handling it. It has passed through the* most critical season of trial and the success of carrying it through is due } to a great extent, to Mr. Burton, 
and I am now pleased to introduce to you, 
ladies and gentlemen, Mr. R. P. Burton. 

Prof. Hume : Three years ago, a num¬ 
ber of men interested in the growing of pecans met and organized a small asso¬ 
ciation known as the Georgia-Florida, 
Nut Growers Association. That associa¬ 
tion has grown to be one of considerable size and it has been doing a very impor¬ 
tant work in connection with the develop¬ 
ment of the nut growing industry. Those 


who are not intimately in touch with nut growing are not aware of the develop¬ 
ments that are taking place, but one of these days we will awaken to the fact that a new industry of vast importance has taken its place in the south. 

Now, we have with us tonight by spe¬ 
cial arrangement, the members of this 
Nut Growers’ Association, and the joint program is in their hands, and I am pleased to introduce to you, to take charge of the Nut Growers’ part of the program, 
Mr. Miller, president of the Nut Growers’ 
Association of Georgia and Florida. 

M,r. Miller: Ladies and Gentlemen: 
You will have to take Mr. Hume’s word with regard to the size of our association^ 
as the representatives we can produce to¬ 
night would not indicate that our num¬ 
bers are very strong. Unfortunately, a combination of circumstances prevented quite a number who originally intended to come to this meeting, from attending. 
Our friends in Georgia found it inconven¬ 
ient to come to this meeting at this time. 
I am glad, however, to see that we have a representative from the State of Geor¬ 
gia and am very sorry that we did not have more. 

We have something more than fifty members in the State of Georgia, and a like number in the State of Florida. 

What we lack in numbers, we will try to make up to you in interest tonight. 
If anyone is interested, we will be glad to have you ask any questions which may come to your mind, and we will answer them to the best of our ability. 


Stem End Rot 


Prof. H. S. Fawcett. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

Stem end rot of citrus fruits is perhaps one of the most serious diseases with which the orange growers have been call¬ 
ed upon to contend. As if we did not already have our .share of troubles to keep us in a humble condition of mind, 
this new plague sweeps down upon us and threatens the destruction of the sound fruit itself after we have brought it safely past all the other enemies that threaten it. A somewhat similar disease of lemons in California, called the Brown 
Rot, threatened the very existence of the lemon industry there. Preventive meas¬ 
ures were worked out by the California 
Experiment Station after a good deal of study and the lemon growers have so learned to handle the crop that little trouble results. It is possibly along sim¬ 
ilar lines that prevention of the stem end rot will lie. We expect to carry out some extensive experiments for the control of this disease this next season and we will try out some of the best methods found by the California Station as well as other experiments suggested by the study of the fungus. 

It is important to investigate this de¬ 
cay at once to see if there may be any means of preventing its spread or of keep¬ 


ing it out of a grove or locality where it is not already found. The decay has become most serious already in a num¬ 
ber of localities in the State. It appears to be most prevalent in Volusia, Lake, 
and Orange counties. Our correspond¬ 
ence has shown that it is found in at least 20 towns scattered over the middle part of the State from east to west, but probably worst in the three counties men¬ 
tioned. It is difficult to predict what it will do next year. It may be worse or there may be different conditions of sea¬ 
sons and weather so that very little trouble will result from it. (The condi¬ 
tions influencing the occurrence and spread of the disease is a feature needing our study and investigation, 
x There are a number of things about it that are quite puzzling, but when we come to understand the life habits of the fun¬ 
gus causing it better, we will perhaps then be in a position to explain these things.) 

The amount of loss from this disease during this year is rather difficult to es¬ 
timate, since it varied a great deal between different localities and different groves. 
In one locality in Volusia County the loss from dropping of fruit was extensive. In one grove which I visited that had been well cared for and in which the trees. 



74 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


looked in good condition, it was estimated that one-third of the grapefruit dropped, 
due largely to the stem end rot. One- 
fourth o^the oranges were said to have been lost in the same grove. In another grove ten miles from this one, io to 50 
per cent, of the fruit was on the ground by the first of December and a large per¬ 
centage of this fruit developed the stem end rot, mostly after they had fallen from the trees. 

HISTORY. 

The first knowledge that I had of the existence of this disease was in November of last year when 4 specimens of grape¬ 
fruit were sent from Volusia county. 
Two of these fruits showed a softening at the stem end, without at first any dis¬ 
coloration on the outside. On examining the interior of the rag and pulp cells un¬ 
der the microscope, large fungus threads were seen which appeared to be quite dif¬ 
ferent from any that were known to oc¬ 
cur in connection with other decay of fruits. Cultures of this fungus were ob¬ 
tained from these fruits by the ordinary laboratory methods. 

The fungus when it grew up in the cul¬ 
ture dishes was different from any I had before seen in connection with citrus fruits. In a day or two letters came from two or three other places indicating that the trouble was more general. We then began to realize the seriousness of the sit¬ 
uation and I began some preliminary ex¬ 
periments to see if I could infect healthy oranges with this disease. I began first with grapefruit and then oranges, and found that almost invariably the fruit on 


which cultures of the fungus or on which pieces of diseased oranges were placed at the cut end of the stem, began to soften in from a week to three weeks’ time. 

DESCRIPTION. 

The fruit begins to soften and sink a little round the stem end, without the rind changing color. There is no blackening or moulding at first, and the rind remains intact over the softened interior. The rot proceeds inward along the fibers of the rag, and then outward to the pulp cells. 
At first both the inside and the outside of the fruit remain almost unchanged in col¬ 
or; but, as the softening goes on, the rind turns dull brown. Finally the rag and the pulp cells are disintegrated, and the entire fruit becomes soft and mushy. 

This rot usually occurs on full-sized fruits after they have colored. Though the softening may begin while the fruit is still hanging on the tree, it usually de¬ 
velops after the fruit has dropped or after it has been picked. 

The stem end rot is mainly but not en¬ 
tirely a decay of fully mature fruit and is usually seen on fruit after they have dropped or have been picked. The char¬ 
acteristic softening does sometimes oc¬ 
cur while the fruit is still hanging to the branches. This shows beyond doubt that the fruit may be attacked while yet on the tree, that in some way which we do not yet know, the fungus gets to the or¬ 
anges on the tree. How early in the de¬ 
velopment of the oranges the fungus may attack them I do not know. One grower who has had some stem end rot for two or three years past said that he first noticed 


FLORIDA ( STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


75 


it a little in September. At that time he said the fruit as they hung on the tree showed circles around the stems which ripened up sooner than the other part of the fruit. This would indicate that the fungus may make its attack at least as early as the first or middle of September while the fruit is still somewhat imma¬ 
ture. The same grower said that the rot was very noticeable by the middle of Oc¬ 
tober and at its height by the first week in November. Long hot dry spells, rain, 
and cooler weather seemed to check it. 
As said before, the symptoms of the de¬ 
cay usually show most on dropped or¬ 
anges after they have lain for some time upon the ground. In most of these cases it is reasonable to suppose that the infec¬ 
tion with the fungus is the direct cause the dropping and that the signs of the decay develop later after the fruit has dropped to the ground. In several in¬ 
stances where suspected fruit was picked from the tree and laid out on the table in the laboratory, they afterward develop¬ 
ed the decay. The fact, too, that it took from a week to three weeks for the soft¬ 
ening to show after fruits were inocu¬ 
lated with the fungus shows that infec¬ 
tion must take place one to three weeks before there are any outward signs of de¬ 
cay. 

If the decay of fruit showed only on the trees and on the ground it would be serious enough, but this is not the end of the trouble. The decay develops on the way to market in spite of any of the known precautions used for preventing decay from the blue mold or other rots. 
This is the most serious phase of the trouble. As has been indicated, the inves¬ 


tigations as to the cause brought out the fact that it could be started directly by inoculations of a species of fungus. A 
study of this fungus was made to find out what its nature was. At first we thought it might prove to> be the same one that causes the Brown Rot of lemons in 
California, but after some study I de¬ 
cided it was a species of Achlya. The spe¬ 
cies of the genus .Achlya are water moulds. They live normally in ponds and ditches, and fresh water streams. None of them as far as I know have before been known to be parasitic on plants, al¬ 
though some of the forms related to Achl¬ 
ya are parasites of insects and of plants. 

Two questions will probably present themselves to your mind. Where did the fungus come from in the first place and how does it get up into the trees to in¬ 
fect the oranges ? To both of these I will have to say I do not know, except that it evidently lives in the soil. I am trying to answer the latter question as to how it gets into the trees. The fact is that it gets to the tree and just how is only a conjecture. I find in some cases kinds of bunches or coils of fungus that develop when the fungus grows up into the air, out of liquid cultures. It is my theory that these act as a sort of spores to carry the fungus from the soil or from previously rotted fruit to the fruit on the trees, but this remains to be proved. 

INOCULATION EXPERIMENTS. 

I shall now confine myself to facts and leave theories and speculations. The de¬ 
cay is highly infectious as will be seen by examinations of the results of some inoc- 


76 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY 


ulation experiments carried on at the Ex¬ 
periment Station laboratory. To find out just how the decay could be transmitted to sound fruit I started a number of dif¬ 
ferent experiments. 

First we placed pure cultures of the fungus on the stem end and on other parts of the surface of sound fruit. We also placed pieces of previously rotted fruit on the stem end of other fruits. We also wished to determine whether or not the fungus could get into the fruit through the attached stems. For this purpose we had oranges shipped in from a point where we had been unable to find a trace of the stem end rot, with stems of various lengths from 3 inches to 1-2 
inch. 

The accompanying table shows the re¬ 
sult of these tests. We kept check in ev¬ 
ery case. This experiment shows that infection may be produced easily through the stem end, but with more difficulty through other parts of the surface. In most of these tests the oranges were kept at a temperature of 85 degrees F. in an incubator. In my last press bulletin I 
said that infection seemed to take place only through the cut end. This was based on some preliminary experiments at room temperature during the month of Decem¬ 
ber. At the cooler temperature at that time no infection took place except at the stem end of the fruit. Since that time I 
have found that infection may take place through other parts of the orange. In¬ 
fection also takes place easily under labo¬ 
ratory conditions through stems 3 inches and shorter. 

Table No. 1. 

Manner of Inoculation. Percentage of Decay 

Cultures on blossom end. 


Cultures 

on 

calyx, cut end 

waxed. 


Cultrues 

on 

end 

of 

stems. 

stem 

3 inches long... 

. 45 

Cultures 

on 

end 

of 

stems. 

stem 

2 inches long. . . 

. 50 

Cultures 

on 

end 

of 

stems, 

stem 

1 Vz inches long. 

.100 

Cultures 

on 

end 

of stems, stem 1 

inch long. 

.100 

Cultures 

on 

end 

of 

stems. 

stem 

Vz inch long. . . . 

.100 

Cultures 

on 

end 

of 

stems. 

stem 

0 inch long. 

.100 


This table shows the percentage of de¬ 
cay in oranges from inoculation with pure cultures of Stem-End Rot fungus. 
The figures are taken 3 weeks after in¬ 
oculation. Small bits of fungus were placed on parts indicated and a piece of wet cotton placed over them. The or¬ 
anges were then wrapped as for shipment and kept at 85 degrees Fahrenheit. 

We also wished to determine whether infection took place from the fungus in water. Fruits were soaked in water con¬ 
taining cultures, for varying lengths of time, and others in water containing pieces of diseased fruit and still others in soil from under diseased trees. 

As checks some test fruits were also soaked in pure water under identical con¬ 
ditions to those above. The second table shows the results of these experiments. 
These experiments show very clearly that infection may take place through the me¬ 
dium of water by means of pure cultures of the fungus, by means of pieces of pre¬ 
viously rotted fruits, and by means of soil from under infected trees. 

Table No. 2. 


Oranges. 

Manner of Inoculation. Percentage of D'ecay. 

With cultures in water, 4 hrs. 25 

With cultures in water, 7 hrs. 50 - 

With cultures in water, 24 hrs. 40 

With diseased fruit in water, 4 hrs. 50 

With diseased fruit in water, 7 hrs.100 

With diseased fruit in water, 24 hrs. 90 

With soil from under infected tree, 3 lbs. in water 

24 hrs .. 75 . 

Soil, air dried 16 days, 3 lbs. in water, 24 hrs_12 

Check. In water only—24 hrs. 00 

Lemons. 

With cultures in water, 24 hrs. 64 

43 Check. Ip water only.—24 hrs. 00 

















FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


77 


This table shows the results of soaking oranges and lemons in water with pure cultures of fungus, or with pieces of dis¬ 
eased fruit, or with soil from under in¬ 
fected trees, as compared with soaking oranges in pure water. After soaking for stated time, each fruit was wrapped as for shipment and kept at about 85 degrees 
Fahrenheit. The figures show percent¬ 
age of decay from Stem End Rot in 3 
weeks after inoculation. Those soaked in pure water showed no decay from this cause. 

Having found out something about the habits of the fungus, how it infected the fruit, etc., the next question was to try some experiments to see what would pre¬ 
vent infection. Since the disease was somewhat similar to the Brown Rot of lemons in California we planned an ex¬ 
periment similar to one that had been carried out for that disease. We placed cultures of the fungus in jars of water and at the same time put into it certain disinfectants. We used copper sulphate, 
formalin, potassium permanganate, iron sulphate and ammoniacal solution of copper carbonate. The experiment indi¬ 
cated that the copper sulphate, copper carbonate and potassium permanganate would prevent infection, but it was not at all conclusive since it was found that the oranges on which the experiment was tried proved afterwards to have been af¬ 
fected with stem end rot before being treated. 

TREATMENT. 

Treatment or preventive means that suggest themselves as a result of study of the fungus and our experiments in in¬ 


fecting oranges and in preventing infec¬ 
tion are of two kinds: (1) Treatment in the grove to prevent the infection of fruit on the trees, and (2) in case oranges must be washed, treatment at the packing house to prevent oranges from infecting one an¬ 
other at the washer. Probably the most feasible treatment in the grove will be to use the ammoniacal solution of copper carbonate. This should probably begin as early as the first of September or sooner, judging from; the reports we have of the time when the decay begins. Bor¬ 
deaux mixture could be substituted for the ammoniacal solution at this time, and the ammoniacal solution used later when there was danger from staining the ma¬ 
ture fruit. I tried some experiments with the ammoniacal solution of copper carbonate in December, but this was prob¬ 
ably too late to get any marked results. 
However, the treatment did show some results, about 10 per cent, less stem end rot being found on sprayed than on un¬ 
sprayed trees. 

This next summer and fall I intend to take up some more extensive experiments in some orange groves. The second line of treatment will consist in treating the wash water with some disinfectant to pre¬ 
vent the fruits from infecting one another in the process of washing. It seems to me this may be done either by throwing into the tank a fungicide as is done for 
Brown Rot in California or perhaps bet¬ 
ter in allowing a spray of some fungicide to play over the oranges as they leave the washer. 

To sum up, the facts about stem end rot are that it is caused by a fungus re¬ 
lated to the water moulds. It attacks or- 


78 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


anges, grapefruits, tangerines, lemons, 
and sour oranges. It attacks the fruits usually at the stem end but may under some circumstances enter at other places. 
It may be transmitted from diseased or¬ 
anges to healthy ones by contact or by soaking them together in water. The fungus may infect oranges through a stem at least three inches long. Oranges may be infected by placing them in water with soil from under trees from which decayed fruit has fallen. It takes from one to three weeks after infection at or¬ 
dinary temperatures for symptoms of the 
•decay to appear. 

The probabilities are that the fungus has spores or aggregations of hyphae by which it is carried to the oranges while on the tree. It is probable that the fun¬ 
gus infection may be easily prevented by spraying with some fungicide early in the season. It is quite probable that any new infections after packing can be pre¬ 
vented by a fungicide in the washer. It is also quite probable that we will find that it is influenced by some climatic or weather conditions or some weakened condition of the trees. This is about the sum of our information and probable theories at present. As we come to learn more about the habits of the fungus and the conditions that enable it to attack the fruit we will probably be in a position then to suggest an effective remedy. 


DISCUSSION. 

Prof. Hume: I have heard a good many discussions on the subject of dis¬ 
eases of plants, but I do not remember 


to have heard a clearer and more intelli¬ 
gent paper than that we have just listened to. I must say that the subject of stem end rot has been most admirably han¬ 
dled. 

Mr. Hart: I would like to ask if, when you are treating oranges, it would not be best to do' it before they go in the washer. 
It seems to me that the experiments would indicate that if there were any spores on the fruit, they would infect any of the fruit that goes through the washer. 

Mr.Temple: I think I can give you a little information on that point, having had more experience probably than any¬ 
one in the State. It would be very well to treat this fruit before it goes through the washer or cull it from the sound fruit, if there was any way you could tell just what fruit was affected, but it comes into your packing houses seeming¬ 
ly perfectly sound. I have packed it and let it stand in the house, and in twenty- 
four hours the box would be a perfect mass of pulp. 

One way you can tell is to cut the or¬ 
ange in half from the stem end down, 
but it would be pretty serious if you had to test all your oranges that way. If you cut the orange at right angles from the stem end to the blossom end, you will find a little mealy white speck which looks very much as though the fruit had been frosted; then there is a slight brownish discoloration, and the fruit has a decided¬ 
ly spoiled odor, but from the outside of the orange you could not tell to save your life whether the fruit was or was not affected in this way. 

We were almost ready to start pack¬ 
ing oranges in the fall when two of our 



FLORIDA (STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


70 


clients came to us and told us we must pack their fruit right then. We investi¬ 
gated it carefully and found a lot of fruit on the trees that was ripe, so we started to ship and that was where we first dis¬ 
covered the stem end rot in our section. 
I sent some to the Experiment Station and some to Washington. 

I have tried various things in the soak¬ 
ing tank; ammoniacal copper carbonate and other things, but it does not seem to help any. 

Prof. Fawcett: I believe the infection of the stem end rot which shows up aft¬ 
er the fruit is packed is made either be¬ 
fore or during the time it is going through the washer. I believe additional infection might take place in the washer, 
but if you treated them after they came out, it would destroy the danger of in¬ 
fection. The twenty minutes or so the oranges are in the bath would not be time enough for the fungus to grow into the rind. 

I believe a feasible way to prevent in¬ 
fection from the wash would be to have a fungicide sprayed upon the fruit when 


it comes out of the washer. I suppose many of the frtiit are infected on the trees through the rains and dews, possi¬ 
bly. 

Mr. Skinner : How about permangan¬ 
ate of potash? Would a spray of that be effective. That is what they are using in 
California and what I used this year. 

Prof. Fawcett: They use that in Cal¬ 
ifornia for Brown Rot and it is very good. 
The only trouble with permanganate is that it stains the oranges, especially if the orange has a rough surface. 

Mr. Temple: The trouble with the suggestions that we disinfect the orange after it leaves the washer is this: no mat¬ 
ter if you do that, and disinfect every orange that has become contaminated in the washer, the fruit that is already dis¬ 
eased goes through and shows no signs of breaking down, so that you cannot tell the sheep from the goats. After it is packed, it breaks down very quickly and the results on that box of fruit are just the same as though you had not disin¬ 
fected it at all. 


The Whitefly Investigations 


Dr. E. W. Berger. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

The whitefly investigations have now been in progress for nearly four years. 
It is the purpose this evening to review the general results in a few words and to state briefly the recommendations for whitefly control as they apply under va¬ 
rious conditions and localities. 

Previous investigators of the whitefly worked along about the same lines that the investigators during the past four years have worked. They sprayed, found and studied some of the fungus diseases, 
fumigated and gave the best advice war¬ 
ranted by the investigations. We, in¬ 
cluding the representatives of the Bureau of Entomology with headquarters at Or¬ 
lando, and the several members of the 
State Experiment Station, have taken up the work where our predecessors left it off; and while their work would natural¬ 
ly be along more general lines, it has fall¬ 
en to us to continue the work more ex¬ 
tensively in special directions. Thus while Dr. H. J. Webber, back in the 90’s, 
sprayed and observed the work of the red and brown fungi, and Professor Gossard later fumigated, it fell to the lot of Dr. 
Morrill and his associates at Orlando, 
Fla., to make fumigation so simple that 


any one who can weigh and measure and count feet can fumigate. The Experi¬ 
ment Station at the same time has found several more fungus diseases, namely the yellow fungus ( Aschersonla flavo-citrina) 
the cinnamon fungus ( Verticillium het- 
erocladum ,) and the white fringe fungus 
(Microcera sp.), and has perfected the spore-spraying method of introducing and spreading fungus. It has refined spray¬ 
ing by directing attention to its peculiar applicability against the younger whitefly larvae, and has found that the so-called whitefly consists of two species, namely, 
the white-winged species ( Aleyrodes cit- 
ri), and the newly discovered cloudy- 
winged species (A. nubifera). These are all steps in advance, but who knows that other investigators coming after us may not carry the investigations as much far¬ 
ther as we believe that we have carried them beyond our predecessors. We come and look and see a few things clearly, 
but how many important points we may not see! 

The speaker is of the opinion that the higher points of the whitefly investiga¬ 
tions have been reached except perhaps the one of finding more of its natural en¬ 
emies in the Orient or elsewhere. It is, 
of course, difficult to know what the out- 



FLORIDA ,ST ATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


81 


come of such a search may he, but we can never know until we find out by actually making the search. Should no more ef¬ 
fective parasites (insect or fungus) be found, the negative results would still be of value. The hope of relief from nat¬ 
ural enemies more effective than the ones known at present would be disposed of, 
and this would probably result in making more efficient use of the means of con¬ 
trol already at hand. One thing is quite certain, that the task of finding a more effective natural enemy of the whitefly in its native home may prove a most difficult one and require a more or less protracted search. 

While, as stated, the higher points of the whitefly problem appear to have been touched, there still remains a considerable number of smaller problems that need to be solved and the finishing touches made. 
The conclusions of previous experiments and observations need to be continually verified in relation to different localities and varying seasons. Some of the minor problems may prove to be high points, 
and we cannot always know of how great importance a new discovery may be until we have made it and know some of the facts connected with it. The discovery of the cloudy-winged species appeared at first to be of but little practical importance until it was found that the yellow fungus thrives upon it only, and that it differs from the white-winged species by appar¬ 
ently not having any food plants except citrus. These facts, together with the knowledge that the cloudy-winged species is less virulent, are of some importance when adapting repressive measures. 


METHODS OF CONTROL. 

The subject of fumigation with hydro¬ 
cyanic acid gas will not be specially dis¬ 
cussed, but referred to in its proper place, 
because Dr. E. A. Back, one of Dr. Mor¬ 
rill’s associates in the fumigation work is present this evening, and can answer all questions on this subject. Besides, bul¬ 
letin 76 of the Bureau of Entomology, 
U. S. D. A., can still be obtained by send¬ 
ing 15 cents to the Supt. of Public Docu¬ 
ments, Washington, D. C. This bulle¬ 
tin, by Dr. A. W. Morrill, gives the nec¬ 
essary information on fumigation. 

Since the speaker has recently had oc¬ 
casion to discuss the different phases of control, both in speech and writing, it fol¬ 
lows that what he has to say on this sub¬ 
ject tonight will be a repetition to many. 
On the subject of control the speaker fur¬ 
ther prefers to quote from a manuscript intended as the next Experiment Station 
Bulletin on whitefly (Bulletin 103). 

THE FUNGUS DISEASES. 

It is a well established fact, but not so well known, that insects are subject to diseases as well as other animals and men. Among the principal disease producing agents of insects are certain parasitic fungi, and the whitefly fortu¬ 
nately is subject to attack by about six. These are the Red Fungus ( Aschersonia aleyrodes), 
Yellow Fungus ( Aschersonia flovo-citrina ), 
Brown Fungus ( Aegerita webberi Fawcett), 
Cinnamon Fungus (Verticillium heterocladum ), 
White Fringe Fungus ( Microcera sp.), and oc¬ 
casionally a species of Sporotrichum, related to the Chinchbug Fungus. These are all parasites of the larvae of whitefly, except the last one, 
which has occasionally been found infecting dead adult whiteflies and presumably had caused their death. 

As it would fall without the scope of this pa¬ 
per to fully discuss each of these fungi, the Red 
Aschersonia will be alone treated in some detail followed by only brief statements on the others. 

The Red Aschersonia .—‘This fungus has giv¬ 
en satisfactory results in localities where the summer rains were normal, or where the trees 







82 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


were in good condition and the general moisture conditions about the grove were sufficient. In dry localities, or where the trees are out of con¬ 
dition generally, the fungi cannot always be de¬ 
pended upon to check the whitefly sufficiently to retain, or to bring the trees back into good condition. However, by diligent effort at spread¬ 
ing the fungi, some relief can be obtained even under adverse conditions, if these be not ex¬ 
treme. Thus, in a certain grove into which the red fungus had been introduced the previous year and in which it was not thriving especially well, giving only very inadequate relief, a single spraying in August, 1908, of the fungus spores into 6 trees in part of a row resulted in some¬ 
thing like 10 times the amount of fungus in these trees than in those on either side or to the ends. Ten times as much fungus, of course, 
implies ten times as many whitefly larvae killed and that in many instances, diligent application of the fungi would give results fully commen¬ 
surate with the time and money spent. Intro¬ 
ductions of fungi should be thoroughly made, 
and if necessary repeated several times during the period of summer rains. The grower must not expect the fungi to do it all alone, he must help the fungus destroy the whitefly by spread¬ 
ing it at the best time. It should be added here that proper fertilizing and cultivation of the trees is important, since a thrifty tree full of healthy foliage presents conditions favorable for fungus growth and, of course, can better w.th- 
stand the attacks of the insects generally. 

In order to start a growth of the Red Ascher- 
sonia, it is only necessary to spray a mixture of the fungus spores in water onto the whitefly larvae in the infested trees. The spores are the seeds of the fungus and are produced in enor¬ 
mous numbers in the red elevations or pustules of the fungus covering the dead larvae. The writer generally uses about 40 pustules to a pint of water. More can be used, or less if fungus is scarce. The spores are easily soaked out of the fungus and in practice leaves and fungus are soaked in the water together. It is not neces¬ 
sary to allow the leaves with fungus to soak long¬ 
er than 5 or 10 minutes, but a longer time does no harm and the mixture of spores and water may even be allowed to stand for 12 to 14 hours without injury. Microscopic examination of the fungus after having soaked it in water for a few minutes showed that only an insignificant pro¬ 
portion of the spores remained. The mixture of spores and water should be strained through coarse cheesecloth or fine wire gauze in order to remove all particles liable to clog the pump. Mix¬ 
tures of fungus spores and water should not be allowed to stand in copper or brass pumps and vessels longer than a few minutes as cop¬ 
per is a fungicide and may injure the spores. 
It is best to avoid copper and brass vessels 


altogether. Growths of fungus can generally be observed with the unaided eye in about three weeks after spraying the spores and water into the whitefly-infested trees. The most success¬ 
ful introductions of the Red Aschersonia have been made during periods of rain and when the whitefly larvae were young. 

Thus one of the most luxuriant growths of the Red Aschersonia that the writer succeeded in getting was at DeLand, during a period of rain in April, 1908, at which time also the spring brood of larvae were in the early stage of de¬ 
velopment and very susceptible to infection by fungus. Generally speaking, the period of sum¬ 
mer rains is the most certain time to spread fun¬ 
gus and to introduce it into new places. Seed fungus can generally be obtained from whitefly infested groves in which the fungi have been previously introduced or in which they occur naturally. Since the fungi do not spread during winter, but are nearly dormant, seed fungus is sometimes scarce during the spring months, but can generally be obtained. By midsummer a crop of fungus has matured upon the spring brood of whitefly larvae, so that fungus is then abun¬ 
dant. The writer does not recommend intro¬ 
ducing fungus after the period of summer rains is over, unless it is desired to get it started in fall, 
when seed fungus is most plentiful, preparatory to having it already started when spring opens. 
The writer has successfully introduced fungus as late as October and December, and while but a meager infection resulted at the time, this spread rapidly during the following spring and summer, 
or as soon as there was sufficient moisture and warmth. The mixture of spores and water may also be applied by a whisk broom when no pump is available. 

Other Fungi .—The methods for introducing any one of the other fungus parasites previously mentioned are in general the same as the meth¬ 
od just described for the Red Aschersonia. The 
Red and the Yellow Aschersonias, however, can be introduced with the greatest certainty, and as a whole are generally the most efficient, ex¬ 
cepting the Brown Fungus when 'conditions for it are right. 

One important point in regard to the Yellow 
Aschersonia must not be omitted. This fungus thrives only upon the cloudy-winged whitefly. 
This fact is important, since it would be useless to introduce the Yellow fungus on the white¬ 
winged species. The Yellow fungus might al¬ 
most be said to be characteristic of the cloudy- 
winged whitefly since wherever the Yellow fun¬ 
gus is found, there also is found the cloudy- 
winged whitefly. The converse of this is not al¬ 
ways true, however, since this fly may exist with¬ 
out its parasite. 

Pinning Leaves .—Pinning leaves having white¬ 
fly larvae infected with a fungus upon them has 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


83 


been extensively practiced but the spore-spray¬ 
ing method has now almost displaced this meth¬ 
od. If leaves are pinned, each leaf should be pinned, with its fungus side down, to the lower surface of a leaf on the whitefly-infested tree. 
Such was the position of the leaf on the tree be¬ 
fore picking, and it should again be placed in its original position, as the fungus will more readily be distributed by its natural agencies when in that position. 

TREATMENT WITH INSECTICIDES. 

As previously stated in the topic on the fungi, 
there are dry times, and groves out of condition, 
when the fungi will not thrive sufficiently. It then becomes necessary to spray or fumigate, 
keeping the fungi well spread, however, during the period of summer rains. 

The writer is aware that spraying with in¬ 
secticides has been more or less in disfavor. On the other hand, operations and experiments of the past year indicate clearly that effective spray¬ 
ing can be done, provided the several stages of development of the whitefly are taken into con¬ 
sideration and the spraying properly timed. The difficulties in the past have probably been that spraying was done at the wrong time, reinfestation from surrounding groves, and poor spraying. 
The difficulty of spraying so thoroughly that the under surfaces of all the leaves become wet with the spraying solutions can be overcome only in part, by taking special care to do the work thoroughly and by spraying at a pressure of ioo pounds or over. ^Spraying solutions are also more effective in hot weather. 

Spraying for whitefly can be carried on suc¬ 
cessfully during those portions of the year when all or nearly all of the insects are in the larval stages or are pupae. During the most of fall, 
beginning with October, and the whole of winter we have the whitefly in the stages referred to. 
During a part of April or May, following soon after the disappearance of the spring brood of adults, there is another period of about a month when but few adult flies and eggs are present and the insect is again in its larval and pupal stages. After May and through September all stages of the whitefly including the adult winged flies are generally present in the trees and the period of rains being on besides, it is not a good time to spray because most of the adults fly away and the eggs are not generally de¬ 
stroyed. 

Fumigation with hydrocyanic acid gas is rec¬ 
ommended for winter use when there are no eggs or adult whiteflies. 

For convenience of treatment further discus¬ 
sion of the artificial insecticides will be given un¬ 
der the two following topics. 


WINTER TREATMENT FOR WHITEFLY. 

Winter is a favorable time to treat the white¬ 
fly, because it is in its larval stages, and there are no adults to fly away or eggs that are diffi¬ 
cult to kill. The older larvae and cooler weather, however, necessitate using all insecti¬ 
cides stronger. 

There are two methods of winter treatment; 
fumigation, and spraying. Where fumigation can be employed, it is to be preferred. Those who have carried on extensive fumigation experi¬ 
ments claim that it is less injurious to the tree than spraying with insecticides. Quicker and better results can undoubtedly be obtained with it, especially on the larger trees where it is diffi¬ 
cult to wet all the leaves by spraying. For small and medium-sized trees spraying can, however, 
be made just about as effective. 

That winter spraying against the whitefly can be made effective has been demonstrated. The solution must of course be used much stronger in winter than in summer. The writer has irs mind a locality in Florida in which the growers organized a protective league, and assessed each grower one cent per year for each tree he owned. 
In this locality, namely, Florence Villa, the whitefly had just become started in two or three groves, and the results of spraying have been so successful that but few if any more whitefly larvae could be found last fall than three years ago. These spraying operations appear to be the most successful on record. The insecticide was a good proprietary miscible oil. Another grow¬ 
er states that he has succeeded in keeping the whitefly confined to a few trees in one corner of the grove for four or five years by thorough spraying with another miscible oil. For winter spraying 'whale-oil soap should not be used weaker than I pound to 4 gallons of water. 

Locality Just Becoming Infested .—Winter treatment should not be omitted in any locality in which the whitefly is just coming in and is confined to a limited area. Under such circum¬ 
stances there is too much at stake to delay. Co¬ 
operation should be started in the form of a protective league. All the growers in such a lo¬ 
cality are threatened, and no grower can afford to omit paying his share towards keeping the pest confined within its present limits as long as possible. It pays better to help fight the pest in another man’s grove than to have it in one’s own grove. Work should not be postponed with the thought that something can still be done in the summer, since by so doing the whitefly is given another chance to spread during its swarming period in April or May. 
Fumigate if possible, if noit, then spray thor¬ 
oughly. 

Badly Infested Localities .—Where a locality is completely and heavily infested, the trees should 


84 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


be treated in winter in order to give them a better chance to set fruit in spring. If co-opera¬ 
tion can be effected it is possible to do the work so thoroughly that no further treatment will be necessary before next fall or winter. If co-op¬ 
eration for an entire locality is impracticable it may be possible to effect co-operation on the part of the owners of the localized groups of groves. Where no co-operation whatever is pos¬ 
sible each grower should treat his own trees. In this instance spraying should be the method of winter treatment. It would be inadvisable to go to the expense of fumigation where the grove is not isolated and reinfestation certain, but spray¬ 
ing should be done. Later in April or May, when the grove has become re-infested from the groves of indifferent neighbors it should be sprayed again. There is a time in April or 
May when the whitefly larvae are young and ea¬ 
sily destroyed by whale oil soap (i pound to 6-9 
gallons of water) or by any other good insecti¬ 
cide sufficiently diluted so as not to injure the leaves or young fruit. This period comes about two weeks after the spring brood of adults has disappeared from the wing. After that, during the period of summer rains, if conditions are at all favorable for fungus growth (plenty moist¬ 
ure, and good condition of trees) the fungus dis¬ 
eases of the whitefly should be introduced. Fin¬ 
ally, if necessary, the trees should be sprayed again in October or November; in which case treatment during next winter will probably not be necessary. (See also under Spring, 
Summer,'* and Fall Spraying.) 

SPRING, SUMMER AND FALL SPRAYING. 

Spring Treatment .—'Spring treatment should begin about two weeks after the winged white- 
flies have ceased swarming and have disappeared. 
There are then only young larvae beneath the leaves. This period comes in April or May, and earlier, depending upon the season and the lo¬ 
cality. In localities where the spring rains are abundant and the general moisture conditions throughout the season generally suitable, the fun¬ 
gi, preferably the red Aschersonia, may be in¬ 
troduced as previously directed. • Where the con¬ 
ditions for the fungi are not suitable, or where it is desired to depend altogether upon spraying, 
the spring period indicated is a most suitable one in which to spray. The advantages of spraying at this time may be summed up as follows: (1) 
The whiteflies are in the young larval stages and are easily killed; (2) they are mainly on new growth and more easily sprayed: ( 3 ) the larvae are destroyed before sapping the strength of the new growth, and before much sooty mold has developed: (4) there are but few rains to interfere with the spraying. 


Summer Treatment .—Spraying may also be carried on in summer during the latter part of 
June or July after the second brood of adult whiteflies has passed its period of greatest num¬ 
bers for 10 days or two weeks. There being all stages present in considerable numbers at all times, and since rains are generally abundant, 
spraying at this time is not advised, except where the trees are suffering greatly. The fungi can generally be introduced to good advantage at this time and they should be spread freely when¬ 
ever the whitefly is present in sufficient numbers. 

Fall Treatment .—Fall is a very important time to spray for the whitefly and treatment may be¬ 
gin in October or November, or soon after the adult whiteflies of the late summer brood have wholly or nearly disappeared, and after the last layings of eggs have hatched. Groves sprayed in the early part of November with a spraying mixture whose principal ingredient was whale oil soap (about 1 pound to 10 gallons of water), 
showed that about 90 per cent, of the larvae had been killed. For the early fall spraying, 
whale-oil soap should not be used less than 1 
pound to 6 gallons of water and may be used stronger. The advantages of fall spraying may be summed up as follows: (1) The young lar¬ 
vae are abundant and easily killed; (2) (they are killed before 'they wax fat on the trees; 
(3) the (trees remain clean for nearly five months; (4) there are few rains to interfere with spraying. 

SPRAYING SOLUTIONS. 

Since spraying for the young whitefly larvae must be done in spring, summer, or fall, when either tender leaves or fruit are on the trees, it is evident that a spraying solution must be em¬ 
ployed which will not injure the foliage or the fruit. Almost any good contact insecticide can be employed, provided it is sufficiently diluted. 

It has been found that soap solutions of 1 
pound of soap to 6 gallons of water, destroyed all the larvae in the first three stages, and most of those in the fourth apd pupal stages. Thorough spraying resulted in destroying between 90 and 
96 per cent, of all the larvae on the leaves. Soap solutions of 1 pound of soap to 9 gallons of wa¬ 
ter destroyed about 90 per cent. Good’s potash whale oil soap No. 3 was used, and also Octagon soap. It is probable that any kind of soap will be effective against these young larvae. In win¬ 
ter the soap solution should be used stronger, 
about 1 pound to 4 gallons pf water; but a weak solution used in spring, summer, or fall, when the whitefly larvae are in the younger stages and the weather very warm, will give as good results as the stronger solution in winter. 

“Golddust” was also used on young larvae at the rate of 1 pound to 4 gallons of water, and 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Q 


90 to 95 per cent, were killed. Preliminary chemical examination of Golddust showed that it consisted of about 25 per cent, of soap, 62 
per cent, of washing soda, and about 13 per cent, 
of water. One part of whale oil soap with three parts of washing soda gave practically the same result as Golddust, when each was used in the proportion of 1 pound to 4 gallons of water. One pound of whale oil soap to 9 gallons of water 


gave practically the same result as the whale oil soap and soda mixture, at about the same cost, 
which was a little less than half a cent per gal 
Ion. Whale oil soap is therefore a cheaper ma terial to use for spraying than Golddust. A mix¬ 
ture equally good as Golddust can foe made from whale oil soap and washing soda at about one-half the cost. 


Dr. E. A. Back. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

Dr. Back: I regret very much that 

the transfer of Mr. Yothers to other in- 

» 

vestigations makes it impossible for him to be with us this evening. I also regret that the shortness of time at my disposal since I knew that I was to take his place on the program, and press of work has made it impossible for me to prepare such a paper covering the various phases of the whitefly investigations undertaken by the federal government, as your program indicates. 

Since Dr. Morrill presented his paper before you two years ago, the investiga¬ 
tion of the life-history of the citrus and the cloudy-wing whiteflies, and their control by fumigation, spraying, and nat¬ 
ural agencies, such as fungi and possible bacteria, have been continued, and our results, aside from spraying, are now largely in manuscript form ready for pub¬ 
lication. I will, therefore, not dwell at length upon these but state briefly that we still believe that fumigation, when conducted under favorable conditions, is the best and cheapest method of controll¬ 
ing the fly; that control by fungi will very seldom prove satisfactory unless Florida 


weather conditions change very much? 
from those of the past five years; and that often a very large percentage of the death rate of either species is due more to pos¬ 
sible bacteria than to known fungi. There has accumulated evidence to sustain the belief that bacteria are even more valuable in controlling the fly than known fungi. 
It is difficult to explain in any other way the wholesale destruction of the fly in a grove where little or none of the known fungi exist. For a better term, Dr. Mor¬ 
rill and myself have used “unexplained mortality” in referring to this kind of death rate. 

At the present time, the agents of the 
Bureau of Entomology are giving special attention to insecticides and spraying. 
Spraying operations on a large scale are being carried on and gratifying results already have been obtained. A separate report on spraying will be issued at the completion of this work. 

Instead of a paper, I have decided to read certain extracts from our manu¬ 
script which give some of the results of our spraying work with fungi. While these are not in connected form, they will answer questions that are being asked us every day. After reading these, I will 



86 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


show the lantern slides on fumigation prepared by Mr. Yothers. 

(.Manuscript read not presented for publication as it will shortly appear in bulletin form.) 

Discussion following reading and lan¬ 
tern slides. 

Mr. Porcher: I would like to ask if anyone present has had any practical re¬ 
sults from fumigation. 

Mr. Skinner: I fumigated a five acre grove and killed 98 per cent of the fly, 
and also killed all the crop for that year. 
My neighbor did not fumigate, and the next year all the flies from his grove— 
or so it seems to me—-came over to my place and camped on my ground. I 
would not fumigate again unless every¬ 
one in the surrounding country did. It certainly kills the flies and scales, how¬ 
ever. The Chases have two groves which they fumigated and absolutely kept the fly in check. They absolutely stamped it out. On their budded trees they have an elegant crop. 

Dr. Back: I do not consider that fu¬ 
migation is advisable in a grove surround¬ 
ed by other infested groves unless every¬ 
one fumigates at the same time. Mr. 
Temple’s “Baby” grove at Winter Park is a good example of the uselessness of fumigation when such conditions exist. 
And for this reason, also, the fumigation in the Earle and Sadler groves at Tan¬ 
gerine will be of no practical value in con¬ 
trolling the fly. On the other hand, the 
Friar grove at Victoria is an example of the good results that can be obtained by fumigation in an isolated grove. 

Mr. Skinner: I might add, however, 
that the grove lost last year’s crop, but 


it looks as though the trees will have enough this year for both years. I never in all my life saw trees have such a fine crop. The fumigation killed all the ene¬ 
mies the trees had. 

Dr. Back: The fact that Mr. Skin¬ 
ner’s grove did not bear a heavy crop the season following fumigation does not necessarily prove that fumigation was re¬ 
sponsible for the poor crop. Fumigation sometimes receives credit for a poor crop when in reality it merely precedes what would under normal conditions be an off- 
bearing year. Our experience at St. Au¬ 
gustine and Victoria alone demonstrates that a heavy crop of fruit may set the spring following fumigation. And those who have noted the crop on the trees fu¬ 
migated at Tangerine last winter, know that there is as much fruit on the fumi¬ 
gated as on the unfumigated trees. 

Mr.—Even when you kill ninety- 
nine per cent of the fly you don’t always have good results, do you? 

Dr. Back: It is a very easy matter to fumigate and kill from 95 per cent, to 
99.5 per cent, of the fly. While this seems like reducing the fly to the point of extinction, as a matter of fact, in a grove where there are from 150 to 200 living pupae per leaf, even if as many as 99.6 
per cent, are killed, a large number of flies are left. If you kill 99 per cent, you have left at least as many flies as you have leaves, and by the following fall they will have increased to an astonish¬ 
ing extent. The length of time one fu¬ 
migation will remain effective depends largely on the numerical abundance of the fly represented by the percentage that es¬ 
capes fumigation. In other words, one 




FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


87 


fumigation when the fly is not excessively abundant in a grove may be expected to last two, or, in some instances, three years, while the amount of fly escaping a fumigation in a badly infested grove may represent numerically such a large amount of fly that the trees may become blacken¬ 
ed by the following fall, if multiplication goes on unchecked by natural agencies. 
It seems probable that in very heavily in¬ 
fested groves fumigation two successive years can best be employed to reduce the fly to relatively small numbers when fu¬ 
migation once in two or three years will keep the fly from blackening the foliage and fruit. 

Mr. Scott: In Arcadia, the whitefly made its appearance about three years ago. Last winter we fumigated with these tents, I suppose about 1,000 or i,- 
500 trees, at an expense of $2,500.00 
which was appropriated by the county. 
This year, if the fly has been seen there, 
I haven’t seen it or heard of it. I have not seen a single one. 

Dr. Back: In that work, about four of every thousand flies escaped fumiga¬ 
tion. The percentage of fly killed in Ar¬ 
cadia is remarkable considering the ad¬ 
verse conditions. 

Mr. Scott: We had a few chinaberry trees that might have harbored the fly and we cut them down, and all the Cape 
Jasmine and privet. There was some bad feeling about it, but I think it is all over now. It was just in town that this was done. We took it in time so that it has not spread out into the county at all. 

Mr. Gillette: We use a great deal of spray during the summer killing the rust 


mite; that is, the sulphur solution dis¬ 
solved with caustic soda or caustic pot¬ 
ash. If the grove was full of the fungus you have described, would the use of this wash kill the fungus or have any effect upon it? 

Dr. Back: As most groves are sprayed for the mite, I do not think that it will. I have seen groves sprayed for the mite where the fungus along the edge of the under surface of the leaf had turned color and appeared to have been killed, although I am not positive. Since in spraying a tree for the mite the under¬ 
surface of the foliage is not wet to any extent by the spray, I doubt if the fungus is seriously affected. 

Mr. Porcher: If you sprayed four o*~ 
five times during the summer, what ef¬ 
fect would there probably be? 

Dr. Back: I don’t know how to an¬ 
swer that question except with this ex¬ 
ample. I know of one grove that was sprayed regularly throughout the sum¬ 
mer for rust mite and in September that grove had the finest stand of Yellow As- 
chersonia that I ever saw. 

Mr. Skinner: I might suggest that in spraying for the rust mite, you generally go at it from the top of the tree, so that the spray hits the upper sides of the leaves, and the fungi are on the under sides of the leaves. 

Mr. Hart: Now, about straining the material; I note that you say to strain through fine wire. Is that what you use altogether? 

Dr. Back: Just an ordinary wire strainer. We use wire strainers altogeth¬ 
er. 









FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 




A NEW THEORY FOR REPELLING THE WHITEFLY. 


Chas. R. Hardy. 


Mr. President , Ladies and Gentlemen : 

The most serious menace to the citrus fruit industry of Florida appears to be the destructive effects of the whitefly. Al¬ 
most every section of the State, except possibly far down on the East Coast, has suffered from visitations of the pest and considerable time and money have been spent in combating the inroads made by i he insect in the groves of the orange growers. 

At present three methods of extermina¬ 
tion are being used with more or less suc¬ 
cess, viz: fungi, fumigation, and spraying with various insecticides. However suc¬ 
cessful any of these methods may be in cleaning up a grove they are but tempo¬ 
rary expedients at best, and must be con¬ 
tinued indefinitely, thereby adding consid¬ 
erably to the expense of growing a crop of fruit. The theory that I am about to suggest, and which I am firmly convinced will be the only positive and permanent means for successfully combating the whitefly differs radically from all these. 
It is simply to make the orange tree im¬ 
mune to the attacks of this insect and rea¬ 
soning from analogy, I see no reason why t may not be done. 

Several years ago the wheat growing mdustry of England was all but destroy¬ 
ed because of the rust that attacked the wheat fields. After experimenting with n large number of varieties of wheat which had been gathered from all parts 


of the world, one variety was discovered that offered great resistance to the at¬ 
tacks of the disease. This variety was proved to be immune and specimens grow¬ 
ing among plants of affected kinds inva¬ 
riably repelled the rust. This was an im¬ 
portant discovery, but this quality was about all that could commend this variety to the growers. In other respects it was a very poor and unsatisfactory grain. How¬ 
ever, by crossing it with other varieties of more vigorous growth and larger heads, a strain was subsequently built up that ex¬ 
hibited all the best qualities desired in a good wheat and, in addition, it was also made immune to the rust fungus. 

It is a well known fact to experimen¬ 
tal botanists that individual qualities in¬ 
herent in any species may be imparted to kindred species by cross fertilization and that varieties of plants may be success¬ 
fully built up that will exhibit all the de¬ 
sirable features that may be inherent in the parent plants. How then may this principle be applied in producing an or¬ 
ange that may be immune to the whitefly ? 

Two methods at once suggest them¬ 
selves. 

First: bring together every species and variety of citrus fruits from every coun¬ 
try of the globe where they may be found and subject them all to experiment. Place the whitefly among them and see if any trees exhibit repellant qualities to the at¬ 
tacks of the insect. If among them one 



FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


39 


plant should be found that does success¬ 
fully resist the attacks of the fly, then this plant should be used, by cross fertili¬ 
zation, to impart its resistant quality to an orange that should as well possess all the other qualities desirable in a good fruit. But suppose, you may well object, 
that such a tree could not be found. It is quite possible, nay, it is even very prob¬ 
able, that no species of the citrus fruit is completely immune to the whitefly’s at¬ 
tacks. In that case we must simply make it so. Another fact that is familiar to plant physiologists, is that when an or¬ 
ganism is subjected to repeated and long continued attacks of a malignant disease, 
it will eventually become immune to it by the formation of antitoxins in the sys¬ 
tem and this, in many cases, is transmit¬ 
ted to the offspring. The African races having continuously been subjected to the attacks of the malaria germ, the negroes, 
even of our own country, are largely im¬ 
mune to this disease. The Hebrew race offers great resistance to tuberculosis be¬ 
cause it has been subjected to attacks of this disease much longer than any other 
European people, and because tuberculo¬ 
sis appeared in Ireland long after it had become prevalent in other parts of Eu¬ 
rope, the Irish are more subject to its at¬ 
tacks than any other white race. We are all familiar with the efficacy of vaccina¬ 
tion in suppressing smallpox and of the use of antitoxins in the treatment of diph¬ 
theria and hydrophobia. But what has this to do, you may ask, with the immu¬ 
nizing of the orange to the attacks of the whitefly? Nothing, except that it points the way by which we may successfully cope with this peculiar trouble. 


Taking into account the fact that na¬ 
ture provides a natural remedy for dis¬ 
ease by gradually eliminating the weak and preserving the strong so that she may evolve a vigorous and healthy race, 
we would go to those orange trees that have longest been subjected to the white- 
fly’s attacks and from the most vigorous of them raise a large number of seedling trees. These, when they had arrived at a reasonable age, should be infected with the whitefly and from those that most successfully resisted the insect other seed¬ 
ling should be grown. This process of infection and elimination would possibly have to be carried on for a number of generations in order that the cumulative resistant effects might be realized. On the other hand, as almost all trees and plants are subject to sudden mutations,, 
it is quite possible that the desired result may appear in the second or third genera¬ 
tion. It is not beyond the range of prob¬ 
ability that if every infected grove in the 
State was carefully inspected more than one tree might be found already perfectly immune to the fly. I would suggest, then, 
that every orange grower in whose grove the whitefly has appeared should examine every tree to see if the resistant quality is apparent in any specimen. I believe, 
however, that the hope of producing a variety that shall be perfectly immune lies, 
in breeding from infected trees and con¬ 
tinuing the process until the resistant strain appears. This process offers little consolation to you of today, but if it should take fifty years to bring it about it will be well worth all the time, the la¬ 
bor and expense that may be expended on it. 


90 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


The purpose of this paper is therefore to suggest a line of investigation and ex¬ 
periment that may prove fruitful of re¬ 
sults. It is work for the State or the 
National government rather than for the individual grower to undertake, yet the 


growers themselves can do much in the way of preliminary observation that will assist in clearing the ground for a syste¬ 
matic attack of the problem in the man¬ 
ner suggested. 


THE WHITEFLY PROBLEM. 


James E. Kilgore. 


Mr. President t Ladies and Gentlemen : 

I am obliged to admit that I know very little directly on the technical side of this subject that is new and that will interest you. My best efforts have failed to bring out new facts with the proofs attached, 
and my study of the subject convinces me that the individual efforts of any grower of limited time and means, how¬ 
ever observant he might be, will probably result the same way. But where the work is organized under an efficient head, 
with means to push it, the cumulative ef- 
ifect of the individual efforts may be of 
\very great value. 

I mean no reflection on the excellent work done by our experiment station rnen, or the gentlemen sent here from 
Washington. All that has been done in the past four years is due to them, and meager as the means were, especially those of the station, the results are far beyond what we had any reason to ex¬ 
pect, and make the most valuable donation 
I have known to come to any business that was willing to wait till it could get 


something for nothing. For incredible as it may seem, we as fruit growers, or as citizens of the State of Florida, have never given a penny to help this work. 

The national appropriation has given good results in improving fumigation and testing other work. Fumigation will be valuable to the progressive grower, if the less interested ones should be forced out of the business. If the cultivated plants were freed from fly in midwinter, there would be little fly left. It is claimed, 
that the woods are full of them, and that they would reinfest the groves in the spring, but I have failed to find a single citrus whitefly, in any stage, on a wild plant in midwinter. That there are a few such plants has been discovered by the 
Entomologist, but such plants could ea¬ 
sily be eradicated. 

The chief drawback with men from 
Washington, has generally been that they cannot stay here long enough. The ablest men living would need two or three years time to study local conditions, before they can do their best work. But notwith- 




FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


01 


standing this drawback most of the pion¬ 
eer work was done by these men, as well as some very excellent recent work. 

The discovery of several new fungus diseases of the whitefly with practical methods of spreading therm; the discovery of two' species of the whitefly, and the dif¬ 
ference in habits, and means of control- 
ing them, have been made by the Experi¬ 
ment Station, which has also made a gen¬ 
eral study of the spraying subject, in which it was found that any good spray will kill all the young larvae that it hits, 
but the pupae were found cpiite resistant. 
But a few new sprays seem promising. 

All this, including fumigation, the fun¬ 
gi, and spraying, with a little experience nearly eliminates the damage from whitefly, under favorable conditions. 
This information is worth one hundred times what it cost, besides giving us well learned men, and it did not cost us any¬ 
thing. If “all things come to those who wait,” the rest of the information we need so much will come to us, and may come free. But I am of the opinion that it would be better to secure the necessary funds and go after it, for our cheap wait is costing us millions of dollars, when with even a $25,000 annual appropriation from the State, we would probably in a few seasons see the dreaded fly no longer a pest of any importance, at least no worse than it now is in India and Japan, 
where it has been present for many years without serious results so far as we know. 
If we get the money, and we must get it, 
its use should be at the discretion of the director of the Experiment Station, and the Executive Committee of this Society. 
This sort of arrangement would not be 


good politics but it would be good busi¬ 
ness. 

Our native fungus in most cases does good work; but when we have to combat a fungus disease, as scaly bark, wither- 
tip, stem end rot, etc., the friendly and unfriendly fungi must live or die to¬ 
gether. So our most urgent need is an insect capable of keeping down the fly and scale, while we exterminate the pest fun¬ 
gi. Such insects may, and probably do, 
exist in Cuba, South or Central Ameri¬ 
ca, Asia, or Africa, where many species of whitefly, and many insects and fun¬ 
gus enemies to them exist, and where no competent person has studied the subject. 

When the right insects are found they must be introduced here; and may be, 
taught to be bird wise. The bird problem is a serious one in this line of work. Most of our birds are either harmless or friend¬ 
ly to the farmer. Even some, like the cat bird, that are generally condemned are decidedly in this class. All the scientific work, on which our literary friends base their beautiful songs to the farmer, how¬ 
ever, was done in places so remote, and where conditions were so different to ours, that it is of little value here, and 
I am sure that a competent unprejudiced observer (if there be such) would re¬ 
verse most of the claims in favor of pro¬ 
tecting the jaybird class, as they eat many insect eating bugs besides scattering weed seed, and eating valuable fruit, vegeta¬ 
bles, grain, etc., for the protection of which we are very largely dependent on bugs, wasps, and spiders. But this is an immense task and we will not be able to properly protect the good birds till some 









92 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


honest, intelligent work is done in this line. 

The first thing is to get the insects, and probably while we are on the hunt we will find more and better fungi also. But to do this, we must have good men, and their salary and traveling expenses must be paid. This will take “money 1 ’ which has been and still is the real problem of the whitefly problem, and its solution is of an educational nature. If an automobile club wishes a $100,000 speedway, all it needs to do is to teach the farmer to con¬ 
sider the investment a good one, and it gets it. If any other interest wishes a few thousand or a few hundred thousand, a little missionary work among the agricul¬ 
tural classes, who directly or indirectly pay most of the taxes, will usually give the desired results. Now we must get our¬ 
selves to believe that a little money spent in this way would be a good investment, 
and when the favored interests who are so jealous of any public funds they can¬ 
not use, cry extravagance and ask if we are not already taxed enough, we can plead that such investment would make us better able to pay taxes. What we at present need is not a large amount any¬ 
way. Half of the special tax on the far¬ 
mers in the sale of fertilizer and feed stamps, would do a lot of good. I don’t see why the ever alert, educational inter¬ 
ests, railroad interests, pension interests, 
draining interests, etc., have not observed this splendid opportunity to increase their revenue. But they may fear that if “old dobbin” got to feeling his oats he might kick out of harness. If they don’t give 


us a little benefit from the load we carry, 
let’s balk till they make it a whole lot lighter for us. 


DISCUSSION. 

* 

Dr. Berger: There are places where the whitefly is just starting and where it is necessary to apply quick measures to check it, and to keep it from spreading to the surrounding groves. In such cases spraying is recommended, or fumigation, depending upon the season of the year. There are lo¬ 
calities where the fungi have done excel¬ 
lent work; did as good work as would have been accomplished by ordinary spraying during the summer. In empha¬ 
sizing spraying as I have done this even¬ 
ing, I do not mean to retract anything from the emphasis formerly placed upon the fungi. One remedy will apply in one place or at one time, and another in an¬ 
other place or at another time, and the more I study this whitefly proposition,, 
the more I find that the results obtained by any few experiments in any one local¬ 
ity do not necessarily apply to all locali¬ 
ties in the State. The State is too large; 
the conditions are too different. 

Mr. Skinner: I want to ask Prof. Ber¬ 
ger one question. It is not exactly about the whitefly, but it is one of consequence, 
and that is, the scale. I mean all kinds of scale, but mostly the ordinary long^ 



FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


93 


scale. What time is the best time to spray for the scale ? What time are they gener¬ 
ally on the move ? 

Dr. Berger: Some varieties first be¬ 
gin to move freely during March and 
April. They begin to move again later on, say June or July. According to what has been written about scales, we consid¬ 
er that there are three broods. I have not had occasion to work much with scales myself. The best way would be to watch the grove carefully. It is not so difficult to watch the trees and see the condition existing; whether the eggs or adults or crawlers are there. If they are hatching, that is, the young are crawling, 
that would be a signal to spray. In the spring, while spraying for the rust mite, 
you might mix Whale Oil Soap at the rate of one pound to about six gallons of the soda-sulphur or potash sulphur spray, 
which would apply against the young scales present as well as the mites. Soap would not mix with lime-sulphur solu¬ 
tions. 

Mr. Skinner: We generally use six¬ 
teen pounds of Whale Oil Soap to the barrel, and sometimes we kill them, and sometimes we don’t. 

Dr. Berger: Of course, no strength of soap will destroy the eggs. It may de¬ 
stroy the adults but not the eggs. Spray one or two times during spring or sum¬ 
mer when the young are crawling and note results. 

Mr. Skinner: Is there any solution to effectually kill the scale ? 

Dr. Berger: I have seen very nice re¬ 
sults with Schnarr’s solution. It was used at Boardman in Mr. Sampson’s grove last July and apparently it did not 


do any injury to the trees or the fruit. 
The Target Brand is considered in the same class. I have not had occasion to compare them, but reports put them about equal. 

Mr.—How about kerosene emulsion? 

Dr. Berger : Generally considered good; it is considered one of the best. 

Mr.—What do you think of Thrip 
Juice? 

Dr. Berger: Thrip Juice is recom¬ 
mended only against the young, crawling scales. 

Prof. Rolfs: I would like to have a word. I think in a large measure our scourge of the whitefly has been due to our carelessness and indifference to the information we already have. In other words, we let infested chinaberry trees grow and breed whitefly by the millions, 
and then weep and bemoan our fate be¬ 
cause the plague of whitefly is sent upon us. Now, I have in mind where a certain community thought it wiser to fight the whitefly when it was in another locality rather than to wait until it got into their own place. I found that it cost the peo¬ 
ple in that community one cent per tree per year to fight the whitefly in another fellow’s grove. Now, if they had waited until the whitefly got into their own groves, they would have had to pay 25c. 
or 30c. a tree. We have adopted the “let alone” policy, when we should have gone out and been in the thick of the fray. 

Dr. Inman: I think Prof. Rolfs was referring to our community. Winter Ha¬ 
ven. I am drawing the attention to my¬ 
self, but don’t claim any of the praise. 
I was away when the whitefly was dis- 





<94 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


covered, but I don’t think it was more than forty-eight hours before a fund was raised to fight the whitefly. The assess¬ 
ment was one cent, per tree. There were very few of the people who did not join. 
Since that time, we have held the white- 
fly in check and have kept our groves 
•clean and have not had a smutty leaf or fruit. The area over which the whitefly has spread, is very little, as far as we know. 

Another question that I will discuss here, is the scale question. We all have 
.some scale in the Winter Haven region, 
but we have it pretty well under control by adding Hammond’s Thrip Juice as follows: 

One-half pint Thrip Juice, beaten into an emulsion with an equal quantity of kerosene. Then add water to make a bucketful. Then strain the whole through 
•cheese cloth into a fifty gallon barrel of 
Sulphur Spray, and stir thoroughly. 

Thrip Juice should be used with cau¬ 
tion and only early in the season and not after the fruit has become larger than an 
English walnut. Continuing its use after the fruit has assumed considerable size, 
may cause spots on the under side of the fruit where the concentrated drip evapo¬ 
rates and burns the skin. Another objec¬ 
tion to using it late in the season is that ft destroys the acidity of the fruit and ren¬ 
ders it insipid. It is quite generally used in the Florence Villa and Winter Haven regions, and I have not for years heard 
■of a grower complaining seriously of the scale pests. 

It is very unusual to see scale infested fruit brought into the Exchange packing bouses. 


Mr. Porcher: We have used at Day¬ 
tona Whale Oil Soap, Good’s No. 3, as strong as eighteen pounds to fifty gallons of water. We have held the whitefly there in check, but have done nothing more than that. 

I think I read an article by Dr. Back in the Florida Fruit and Produce 
News in which he speaks of the Schnarr and of the Target Brand insecticides, 
very favorably. 

We are impressed by the fact that for years we have heard talk of the extermi¬ 
nation of the whitefly pest, but we are no nearer this end than we were when we began. It seems to me that these gov¬ 
ernment people, after they have made their scientific tests should give us com¬ 
plete, clear statement as to facts upon which to base conclusions. This Schnarr preparation as I understand it, has given very good results, and as Dr. Back has written an article, it seems to me that it would be a good idea for him to lead us along a little farther. I mean, the spray is recommended highly, but we hear noth¬ 
ing further than that. I would like a def¬ 
inite statement as to what it will and will not do. 

Dr. Back: I would like to say that it is a very easy matter for entomologists to test our various patent insecticides and to determine their relative value. In fact, 
we have already done this with nearly all the whitefly insecticides and now have in press a circular on the subject which will give the information desired more fully than my recent article in the Produce 
News. One objection to our spending time in trying out patent insecticides is 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


95 


that in the past their formulae could be changed at any time and such changes necessitate a repetition of the tests. On the other hand, the general public has no way of determining the value of sprays urged upon them by solicitors except by costly experience and it is reasonable that they should have some way of learning quickly whether the spray advertised will do what is claimed for it, and that they 
. have a protection similar to that given by pure food and the fertilizer laws. Had we been as active in telling all that we knew about certain insecticides that have been on the market during the past few years as their manufacturers were in ad¬ 
vertising them, the growers would have been saved many thousands of dollars. 

Dr. Berger: In regard to Mr. Porch- 
er’s statement that “We have held the whitefly there in check, but have done nothing more than that” : what more do you want, Mr. Porcher? You have done well enough. Extermination is out of the question.. 

I would also like to make a little ex¬ 
planation here why it is that we 
Experiment Station and Government people are not more anxious to take up these patent sprays and test them out. 
We may get a batch of dope today; we don’t know what the next batch is going to be like. The two may be just as dif¬ 
ferent as though they were entirely differ¬ 
ent compounds. The Whale Oil Soap heretofore has run more nearly the same; 
it is a little different in this respect from most of the proprietary insecticides. 

In my own case, working under the 
Adams Fund, I would hardly be allowed to take up these commercial insecticides 


and try them out, as I am supposed to be investigating other and more important things. It requires very little originality to try out a new spraying solution and see what results it will give. 

I think from now on it will be differ¬ 
ent. There is an insecticide law before 
Congress, and I have just received a let¬ 
ter from the chairman of the committee on insecticides that the bill has passed. 
This law, of course, affects only inter¬ 
state products, establishing certain stand¬ 
ards to which each insecticide must con¬ 
form. Proprietary brands must now get their patent and give their formula; in fact, it is very much on the order of the pure food and drugs act. 

For instance; take the Target Brand, 
which is an article in interstate commerce. 
Now we shall have a right to expect that the Target Brand will be the same thing under that name all the time, that they cannot change it without permission, and we will be notified accordingly. 

In regard to this bill, some of you here present received circulars and a copy of the bill from me. I was requested to push the matter the best I could here in this State. I received copies of the bill and some circulars. I sent some of them to Mr. Temple and I don’t know how much we may be indebted to him for the passing of that bill. A copy went before the Directors of the Citrus Exchange and they passed resolutions recommending it. 

Prof. Rolfs : I would like to say a word with regard to Mr. Porcher’s question. 
Three different samples of one of the most popular insecticides that have come to the State of Florida, were received in my office during one week. No two of 


96 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


them tested out alike, but they were all under the same name. Now, what would be the economy in trying these different compounds out ? 

The proprietary insecticide business is in such a hopeless muddle that we cannot get head nor tail to it until we get laws regulating this just as the fertilizer and pure food is being handled. It would keep a corps of chemists busy to test out all the insecticides that come to the Ex¬ 
periment Station. A great number of them are practically the same thing. A 
great many of the analyses show that it is the same identical thing with four or five different names. We haven‘t time to bother with them all. I assure you that time is a commodity with us, very little of which is wasted. 

Mr. Porcher: I agree with you gen¬ 
tlemen in all that; what I am trying to get at is that some method should be de¬ 
vised to have these patent insecticides tested out, because I am quite confident some of them are valuable. Now, the firm 
I mentioned this morning; the Cooper 
Nephews. They have produced a sheep dip the value of which is beyond question. My tests with it as an insecti¬ 
cide have been extremely favorable. 

I think we ought to come to these meet¬ 
ings and feel when we go away that we have found out something that will be of value to us. We come here and we hear long papers, and the next man will get up and tell you he doesn’t think what the first man says is very much good, as he didn’t have much success with it, and then a third man gets up and tells you his way is right. 


Personally, I do not believe for one mo¬ 
ment that we will ever succeed in exter¬ 
minating the whitefly by fungus. My be¬ 
lief is that it will be through spraying, 
or possibly through fumigation. While I 
have not, personally, any whitefly in my grove, I probably will have it in time, un¬ 
less we find out something that we know will keep it in check. I consider it a most serious menace. We know that fruit that has been preyed upon by the whitefly, has lost its value. You may wash it and send it to market, but if the consumer has any taste in his palate, he will not purchase it again. Our only method is to exter¬ 
minate that fly and, in my opinion, the only way to do it is by spraying in some form. 

Mr. Mills: It has been several years since I have been at one of these meet¬ 
ings. We come here to learn things and 
I came purposely to hear this whitefly dis¬ 
cussion. In Jacksonville, we do not have orange trees, but we have to fight it in the hedges. We have tried Whale Oil 
Soap; we have tried several of these pat¬ 
ent remedies, but we have had the best success with the William Cooper Neph¬ 
ews’ V. I. Tree Spray. There is the V. I. 
and the V. II, and we find that it gives the best results; better than either 
Schnarr’s or Target Brand. 

Dr. Back: We have tested the V. I. 
spray and our results do not quite agree with those of Mr. Porcher. At the rec¬ 
ommended strength it kills but little over 
50 per cent, of the fly when the fly is in the younger stages, and a very much smaller per cent, when the fly is largely in the pupal stage. Tests conducted un¬ 
der identical conditions with effective 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


07 


sprays killed close to ioo per cent. Rec¬ 
ognizing the inferiority of the V. I. spray, 
as at present manufactured, the agent of the Cooper Nephews & Co. has verbally agreed to remove the spray from the market until it has been perfected. 

We are not so much in need of a good spray, of which there are a number, as we are in need of thorough spraying. It is money thrown away if the work is done carelessly. For instance, last winter two groves here were sprayed with an effec¬ 
tive insecticide, but the work was done in such a half-hearted manner that only about 50 per cent, of the fly was killed. 
Consequently, this spring the fly is very abundant and the foliage blackening, and it is already evident that the trees will be as black as last season. Naturally, the owner feels that spraying is a failure be¬ 
cause he sees that his money has been thrown away. He does not realize that personal supervision together with a little educational work with the sprayers and an outfit more in keeping with the size of his trees, would have produced far differ¬ 
ent results. 

Mr. Skinner: I want to stand up for the work the Government people are doing. They have gone into this whitefly proposition pretty thoroughly. I have spent, I suppose, $5,000 in fighting the whitefly and if I know anything I ought to know a little about it. I thought a year ago that spraying was the thing, but now I am not so sure of it. In some in¬ 
stances those who have sprayed their groves thoroughly have more whitefly than those who have not sprayed their groves at all, and that with groves right side by side. I can show you groves that 


have never been sprayed that two years ago were just a miass of black pollution that today are as clean as any groves you every saw, and that without the introduc¬ 
tion of any fungus, except, perhaps, the white-fringed fungus that is native to the west coast. Of course, eventually we will find the solution of the problem, but 
I am free to confess that I think we are still working in the dark. 

Mr. Temple: I, too, would like to say a little something about the whitefly prop¬ 
osition. For more than two years, I gave that my hardest study. I simply ate, drank, 
slept and dreamed “white fly.” I spray¬ 
ed, I fumigated, I applied fungus, I have done everything that anybody would rec¬ 
ommend. I fumigated one of my groves and had it done in the most thorough manner possible; so thoroughly that I 
killed nearly all that year’s crop. That was in February, and I had more smut in November than I had in February. In other sections of my grove where I have sprayed, the result has been reasonably satisfactory. 

With the fungi, I think I have gotten the best all around results. I firmly be¬ 
lieve that if you apply your fungus thor¬ 
oughly, steadily, intelligently, that once in three years you will get a fairly clean crop. 

But, gentlemen, if the best we can hope for is a clean grove once in three years, 
I would take an axe and cut down all my orange trees and plant the groves to peaches, which may be profitable, or cam¬ 
phor trees, which are beautiful. The or¬ 
ange industry is not worth a snap of your finger if we are going to depend on what we know to get rid of the whitefly. 



98 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


I have been for two years, as Dr. Ber¬ 
ger and Mr. Morrill will tell you, endeav¬ 
oring to get a commission sent abroad to look up the home of the whitefly and find out what it is that keeps it in check; to find out what remedy Nature furnishes. 
I know Nature generally furnishes a means to keep the balance between the pursuer and the thing pursued. 

As you probably know, Uncle Sam brought this thing in through his private green houses in Washington. 

A lot of us started in and originated an idea of sending a committee abroad to try to find the original home of the whitefly and find the remedy that came to keep it down, because the whitefly came from somewhere and unless there is something there to keep it in proper limits, the place where the bird originated would have been a howling waste by this time. 

We succeeded in getting a bill through, 
appropriating $10,000. We had selected 
Drs. Berger and Back as the men best fit¬ 
ted to go on that expedition. If any more funds were necessary there were plenty of us ready to stand back of it. 

Now, I want to commit myself on the inside working of the powers at Washing¬ 
ton. When we had gotten the bill through and the Committee on Appro¬ 
priations were considering the matter, 
Mr. Howard went, unsolicited by any one and requested them to cut this appropria¬ 
tion in half. He said it was utterly un¬ 
necessary to spend that much; that he had in his office a very brilliant young man, 
thoroughly competent to make this inves¬ 
tigation and report to us. If we do any¬ 
thing with this whitefly problem, we will have to send someone who is competent 


to be entrusted with this important com¬ 
mission, back to the place where the fly came from and find what bites it there. 
We must raise the money our own way, 
and then we can spend it our own way. 

Mr. Hart: I want to say that Mr. Tem¬ 
ple is expressing my ideas exactly, as to the remedy we may look forward to for doing away with the whitefly and making it a minor trouble. 

It was not so many years ago since the purple scale was a serious menace to us. It is still with us, but not so very se¬ 
rious. I believe firmly that when we find the original home of the whitefly, we will find it to be a minor trouble, and if it is a minor trouble, there is some cause for it. If we find that cause and bring it here, 
the whitefly trouble will drop out of sight. 
I am ready to assist in this matter in any way that seems best. 

I went to Washington last September to see what I could do in regard to this matter. I was one of the committee ap¬ 
pointed by this organization. The other members of the committee could not well meet with me there at that time, but I 
expected them to go to Washington with me on the way back. I wanted to know whether the men we wanted to see would be there at the time we got back. I met with every courtesy and among others of the men I talked with, was Dr. Howard, 
and he put up this proposition in regard to Mr. Woglum. I was innocent enough, 
and supposed everything was all right. 
When I came back and reported, we start¬ 
ed to raise a sum for the Florida growers to help in the work. Dr. Howard’s prop¬ 
osition was that the Government would pay. Prof. Woglum’s traveling expenses 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


99 


and for the Florida growers, or any other growers, who might be interested, to help with such sums as they cared to. Since then, it looks as though there is a nigger in the woodpile somewhere, and I have not known just what to do. If the orange growers want to raise the sum to send our professors there, Dr. Berger and Dr. 
Back, I am ready to contribute my part. 
I take it that if we must look for our help in the original home of the whitefly, we must do the whole business ourselves. 

Mr. Barber: I would like to say a word in regard to the whitefly. This is something that affects everybody in Flor¬ 
ida, whether they are orange growers or not. There seems to be a difference of opinion as to what is the best method to get rid of the whitefly. 

I believe the suggestion made a few minutes ago is the correct one. I believe we should send someone to find out where it comes from and what its natural enemy is, and when we do find out, bring it here. It affects me and every other nurs¬ 
eryman in the State of Florida, and what it has done is not half what it is going to do. I have been able to keep it out of my nursery, so far, but I know that it is coming, soon or late. You can’t convince people in other states that we have not got it in our nurseries and state after state has passed laws prohibiting the in¬ 
troduction of our stock into their con¬ 
fines. 

The State of California burned $50.00 
worth of pecan trees for me last winter a year ago, because they had passed laws of absolute quarantine on all trees out of the State of Florida. Now, we know that the whitefly would not live on 


a pecan tree, but they burned my trees just the same. 

I know everyone here is interested in this matter, and we will all do all we can. 

Mr. Wakelin: The question here and now is, what are we going to do about it ? 
Did I understand that Dr. Howard is the man who is going abroad? 

Prof. Hume: A Mr. Woglum, who was recommended by Dr. Howard, 
the one who is going abroad, and I un¬ 
derstand he is to start on his trip about the first of July. 

Mr. Temple : It doesn’t do us any good to say anything, as the matter has been taken out of our hands by Dr. Howard. 
Of course, we can hope that there will be some results, although I doubt it. 

Mr. Painter: What must I do with the funds? 

Mr.—I move the funds be re¬ 
turned to the senders. 

Mr. Henderson: I would like to ask if it would do any good to ask to have the men exchanged and instead of send¬ 
ing their man, send a man that we may select. It seems to me that we ought to have something to say about it. 

Mr. Temple: I move that the secretary of the Florida State Horticultural Socie¬ 
ty be instructed to communicate with the 
Department of Agriculture and the prop¬ 
er bureau, suggesting to them the ap¬ 
pointment of Drs, Berger and Back of 
Florida, as men to take up this investi¬ 
gation of the origin and natural enemy of the whitefly. ' 

M ( r. Henderson : I second that motion. 

Prof. Hume: It has been moved and seconded that the Secretary communicate with the proper authorities in Washing- 



100 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


ton and try to get them to substitute our men for the one they have already ap¬ 
pointed to go abroad. All in favor please saye “Aye.” The motion is carried. 

Mr. Skinner: Mr. President, I object. 
The motion has not been carried. You did not ask for the negative of that question. Now, I feel that it is a very unwise move to make, and it may be there are others here who feel the way I 
do about it. I rise to a point of order. 

Prof. Hume: You are right, Mr. 
Skinner, and I was wrong. The motion has not been carried. 

You have all heard the motion; those in favor please say “Aye.” Opposed “No.” 
The motion is carried. 

Mr. Temple: We can’t be any worse off than we are now, whatever action the government may take. Mind you, through 
Mr. Fletcher we got the government to appropriate $10,000, then this man How¬ 
ard, without any initiative or request from anyone, went before them and told them it was entirely too much; that they might just as well cut that in half; that he had a young man in his office who would go for his expenses; that is the way they foisted this thing off on us. 

I think maybe when our Secretary takes the matter up this way it may put a little different light on the matter. 
Those people up there don’t know our situation at all. They think Howard knows what he is talking about and we poor farmers aren’t capable of judging what we want. 

Mr. Rosenfeldt: You have overlooked 
Mr. Painter’s request as to what to do with the money. I move that the money be returned to the people who sent it. 


Prof. Hume: It has been moved and seconded that the sum of money that Mr. 
Painter has in his possession on account of the whitefly investigation, be returned to the people who so kindly and public spiritedly sent it to the Secretary of the 
Society. Motion carried. 

Mr. Burton: I think there is one point that this meeting should take into consid¬ 
eration, and that is, the subject of having laws to protect yourselves. You ought to have a State law that would obviate the possibility of importing insects or pests of any kind. It is possible for your counties to do something, but there would not be much evenness about it. 

Out in California, somebody brought in some trees from Florida that had the whitefly. You ought to have seen those 
Californians. They came pretty near hav¬ 
ing a fit. They didn’t rest a day, hardly. 
They took the matter up before the Hor¬ 
ticultural Commission. The head of that department said, “I am very sorry, gen¬ 
tlemen, but we have not a dollar in the treasury.” The Exchange finally sent a man to Sacramento to see the governor and requested him to reimburse them for the money they would have to expend in stamping out the whitefly. The governor readily promised to do what he could for them, and it ended by $15,000 being ap¬ 
propriated out of the treasury, they turn¬ 
ed this over to the State Horticultural 
Commission and they did not stop until every whitefly was exterminated. I have heard since that the inspectors have been where the whitefly made its appearance and could not find a trace of a fly that was not killed. 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


101 


Now, is such a thing as that possible in 
Florida? Could you shut out anything in Florida? I think it is obligatory on every citrus grower to use his influence in having a bill like this presented and passed. You should make the man who represents you swear that he will do ev¬ 
erything in his power to shut out those things that you have not yet been afflicted with. 

I was in Lakemont a few days ago talk¬ 
ing to one of the growers who is an old friend of mine: he said, “ I will vote for any law you will have drafted and sent up there, in this line.” He said, “We will have to have a Horticultural Com¬ 
mission that will have power and money behind it to put it in execution, and we don’t want any of these wishy-washy laws that have a thousand loop-holes you can get through.” It has to have the 
State finances behind it and the State po¬ 
lice power behind it. It is the duty of every citrus grower to get right after his legislators and make them pledge them¬ 
selves to go before the next legislature and put such an act through. 

Prof. Rolfs: I will go Mr. Burton one better, and say that we not only ought to have such a law, but the nurserymen ac¬ 
tually need such protection. The nursery¬ 
men seem to be asleep to their own in¬ 
terests. They have absolutely no protec¬ 
tion of any kind, and nearly every state in the Union is beginning to legislate against them. We may at any moment find that it is impossible to ship our goods out of the State, not having anyone to officially inspect them. We have been rocking along, simply letting the matter 


go on from day to day. It is time the nurserymen of the State did something. 
The Nurserymen’s Association should get right in touch with this Association and have such a law passed as will give the 
State inspector power to act. 

The Experiment Station has gone more than its length to help the nurserymen out, and I suspect before the next legisla¬ 
ture the Experiment Station will have to cease its inspection. The other states have taken our certificates because they have confidence in Dr. Berger and not because they had confidence in anything else. It is personal confidence in him. However, 
the inspection as it is now handled is a very precarious thing as well as being very unsatisfactory to all parties concern¬ 
ed. There is no one who can compel Dr. 
Berger to make an inspection if he does not want to do so. I seriously doubt if the Federal Government will allow any¬ 
thing like this much longer. 

I really would like to know what the nurserymen are going to do when the time comes that they cannot have their stock certified by Dr. Berger. 

Prof. Hume: I appreciate the fact that the nurseryman is worthy of all the condemnation that Prof. Rolfs has heaped upon him. It certainly does seem that they are a “harmless” organization. 

I thoroughly agree with both of the gen¬ 
tlemen who have spoken, that it is time something was being done. 

Appointment of Committee on Legis¬ 
lation. 

W. C. Temple, Winter Park. 

Capt. R. E. Rose, Tallahassee. 


102 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Dr. F. W. Inman, Winter Haven. 

Mr. Skinner: I move that Mr. Bur¬ 
ton’s name be added to that committee. 
Motion seconded and carried. 

Mr. Burton: I think it very unwise to put me on that committee. You will find me dead timber, I am afraid. About the time the Legislature meets I won’t be thinking about a thing but oranges. 


Prof. Hume: I really don’t think we can excuse you, Mr. Burton. We need a man with your ideas and your ability. 
While you may not be able to go to Tal¬ 
lahassee, you have so many ideas inside of your head that would be of benefit to the committee, that I would very greatly regret it if you insist on refusing to serve. 


Some Principles Underlying the Use of Fertilizers 


* 


A. W. Blair. 


Mr . President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

As one looks back over the reports of this society, he is struck with the great variety of opinions that have been ex¬ 
pressed with reference to the use of fer¬ 
tilizers for any given crop; and at first it might seem that we have made but lit¬ 
tle progress. On the other hand, we need not expect agreement of opinion; indeed in many cases there could not be such agreement. We must take into consid¬ 
eration the numerous types of soil, the difference in seasons and in methods of culture, and the personal equation. Be¬ 
cause A has used a certain formula or a certain brand of fertilizer with success and profit, it does not follow that B, 
working on a different type of soil or using different cultural methods, or with different moisture conditions, will have equal success with the same fertilizer. 
We cannot adopt certain formulas or certain materials and confidently say that they are good for all times and in all places. We may, however, get at some of the underlying principles which gov¬ 
ern the use of plant foods, and the man who does this will apply his fertilizers with more intelligence than the one who pays no heed to these principles. 


PLANT FOOD AND SOIL FERTILITY. 

We must learn that the terms plenty of fertilizer, and soil fertility, are not synon¬ 
ymous. Soil fertility refers to the crop- 
producing power of the soil, while the fertilizer is only one of several necessary conditions for crop production. There must be in addition, moisture, warmth, 
aeration, drainage, good texture, and the presence of bacteria in order that our soil may be productive. The crop-pro¬ 
ducing power of the soil constitutes its fertility. We are coming more and more to recognize the value of natural agen¬ 
cies in crop production and we must learn to so direct these natural agencies that they will be most potent for our benefit. 
Conditions must be made favorable for their activity. In the past we have per¬ 
haps relied too much upon the efficacy of commercial fertilizers without due regard to their effect upon the soil and upon other agencies that are at work, and in some instances we have entirely ignored other vital requirements of plant produc¬ 
tion. We have practiced constant culti¬ 
vation, and have as constantly applied commercial fertilizers until in some cases we have brought about unnatural condi¬ 
tions, and the result has been that we have had more than our share of dis¬ 
eases, insect pests and the like. I do not 



104 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


mean to say that all our troubles are due to these unnatural and unfavorable con¬ 
ditions which we have created; but we do know that unfavorable conditions often tend towards a weakened plant, 
and that a weakened plant is more sus¬ 
ceptible to diseases and insect attacks. 
To state the idea in a different way: 
Fertilizers cannot give their best results, 
no matter how lavishly or how carefully applied, if the crop must encounter other unfavorable conditions, any more than a powerful locomotive with a heavy train of cars can give its best results over a track with light rails and a poor roadbed. 
In the latter case the light rails and poor roadbed become the limiting factor, while in the former case any one of several conditions may prove a limiting factor. 

SOME FACTORS LIMITING THE EFFICIENCY 
OF FERTILIZERS. 

/. Deficiency of Water .—Perhaps I 
can make this clearer by giving some il¬ 
lustrations of what I mean by limiting factors. 

Not many days ago while passing over one of the lines of the Atlantic Coast 
Line Railway I saw citrus groves where the leaves were curling. Under such conditions no kind or quantity of fertil¬ 
izer could do much for those trees. There must be water to bring the fertilizer into solution before the plant can use it, and when the leaves begin to curl we know that the supply of moisture is failing. 
Here the efficiency of the fertilizer is lim¬ 
ited, and that too, at a most critical time, 
by a deficiency of water. To get the ben¬ 
efit of fertilizers at such times we must 


either irrigate or put the soil in such con¬ 
dition that the moisture from beneath may be brought up by capillary action. 
This latter, however, is impossible if at a depth of four or five inches or a foot beneath the surface there is a plow sole or hard stratum of earth. This hard stratum becomes the limiting factor (in the case of trees) for it prevents the roots from going in search of food and moist¬ 
ure and also prevents the moisture from coming up near the surface where it is needed to dissolve the fertilizer. 

2. Deficiency of Humus .—The effi¬ 
ciency of fertilizers may be further lim¬ 
ited by a deficiency of humus in the soil. 
White sand is a poor material to hold moisture and plant food. On the other hand, if this sand is well supplied with humus its capacity to hold these materials is greatly increased. This in itself may mean handsome profits; for although the soil may be well supplied with fertilizers, 
if the moisture necessary to bring these into solution is wanting the crop will suf¬ 
fer. Many instances could be cited where the crop yield has been greatly increased by incorporating with the soil an abun¬ 
dant supply of humus. We have heard much in recent years of the failure of groves to put on a full crop of fruit; and undoubtedly much of this trouble is due, 
not to a lack of fertilizers, but as has al¬ 
ready been pointed out to the lack of suf¬ 
ficient water to bring the fertilizer into solution at a critical time. Irrigation will help to solve this problem but where ir¬ 
rigation is not practicable the next best step is to increase the supply of humus, 
which will in turn increase the water sup¬ 
ply. Indeed it is well to have an abun- 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


105 


dant supply of humus, even where irri¬ 
gation is practiced. For thereby the loss by leaching will be greatly reduced. 

3. Acid Soils .—Again fertilizers may be limited in their efficiency by an acid condition of the soil. Organic matter de¬ 
caying in the soil results in the formation of acids which will accumulate if the soil is not naturally well supplied with car¬ 
bonate of lime. These acids are harm¬ 
ful to nitrifying and other friendly bac¬ 
teria, and also to some plant roots. How¬ 
ever, the great need for humus in the soil requires us to have the decaying organic matter and with it the resulting acids, but these acids may be neutralized by supply¬ 
ing bases where such bases do not occur in sufficient quantity. Examination has shown that the soils in many sections of the State are acid, and until this condi¬ 
tion is corrected the efficiency of fertil¬ 
izers applied to such soils will be limited, 
and as a result the crop-producing power of these soils will be lowered. Carbon¬ 
ate of lime in the form of finely ground limestone has been found well adapted for this purpose. 

When sulphate of ammonia is placed in the soil as a fertilizer, nitrification takes place, and the ammonia, in the form of a nitrate, is either used by the plant or lost in the drainage waters; 
while the acid radical which we call sul¬ 
phuric acid is left free to unite with a base, such as lime (in which case gyp¬ 
sum or land plaster would be formed). 
However, if not enough bases are present, 
the acid condition of the soil is increased. 
This has been well demonstrated at the famous Rothamsted Experiment Station in England, where certain plots were con¬ 


tinually fertilized with sulphate of am¬ 
monia for years, finally becoming almost non-productive, while on land previously treated with lime or marl the annual ap¬ 
plication of sulphate of ammonia has not had this effect. In commenting on this work, Dr. Hall, director of the station, 
says: “The long continued use of man¬ 
ures like the ammonium salts, which are effectively acids, must have altered the reaction of the soil and made it sour. 
This is very palpable on the plat which has received a very heavy dressing of ammonium salts alone, and on which there is now a large amount of sor¬ 
rel, except upon the small portion where the chalk had been applied.” Doctors 
Hall and Miller speaking of one of the fields on the farm of the Royal Agricul¬ 
tural Society at Woburn, which has been under experiment since 1876, say: “The amount of calcium carbonate present is exceedingly small, barely determinable in fact, yet the plats continue to yield nor¬ 
mal crops, except those which have been manured with ammonium salts. The lat¬ 
ter, in recent years, have become almost sterile, showing an acid reaction to litmus paper, and refusing to grow wheat or barley, unless they first receive a dress¬ 
ing of lime.” 

At no other place in this country has so much work been done on acid soils as at the Rhode Island Station, and in one of the reports from that station Dr. 
Wheeler says, “One fact has been fully established—that sulphate of ammonia if not applied in connection with lime or other substances capable of neutralizing or overcoming the natural acidity of the soil, further increases the injurious action 


106 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


upon the growth of most of our agricul¬ 
tural plants.” In another place, he adds: 
“the yields of the 38 miscellaneous crops show without exception, where no air- 
slaked lime was used, that the sulphate of ammonia was inferior in its action to the nitrate of soda, and in most cases proba¬ 
bly poisonous. On the other hand, where lime was applied in connection with the two forms of nitrogen, the ill effect of the sulphate of ammonia was not only overcome, but in the case of several crops the yield from the limed sulphate of ammonia plats even exceeded that where lime was used with the nitrate of soda.” 
He attributes the value of the lime to its overcoming the natural acidity of the soil and the acid tendency of sulphate of am¬ 
monia. Robert Warington, an English agricultural chemist, has made an ex¬ 
tended study of the comparative value of nitrate of soda and sulphate of ammonia, 
and he concludes among other things that on lands containing no carbonate of lime, 
sulphate of ammonia cannot be profitably used but nitrate of soda may be used. On lands containing a large amount of car¬ 
bonate of lime, sulphate of ammonia gives its best results when it has been plowed or harrowed in immediately aft¬ 
er it has been distributed. Loew has pointed out that acid compounds as su¬ 
per-phosphates, or acidity-producing com¬ 
pounds as sulphates should be avoided on acid soils, while alkalinity-producing com¬ 
pounds as nitrates should not be used on alkaline soils. 

These statements are not to be taken as arguments against the use of sulphate of ammonia, but as a plea for the more general use of carbonate of lime to cor¬ 


rect the natural acidity of the soil and the acidity which results from the con¬ 
tinued use of sulphate of ammonia. In some sections of the State the soils are just as much in need of having lime sup¬ 
plied, as they are of having phosphoric acid or potash. The State, is however, 
generously provided with the natural limestone rock; we have the mills for grinding it, and railroad facilities for transporting it; and if by failure to take advantage of such resources, we continue to limit the productivity of our soils and the efficiency of the fertilizers which we use at a great expense, we will have only ourselves to blame. 

SELECTIVE POWER OF PLANTS. 

Writers on Plant Physiology have call¬ 
ed attention to the fact that plants have the power of appropriating an acid and leaving the base, or of appropriating a base and leaving behind the acid with which it was combined. We thus speak of the basic or acid tendency of fertiliz¬ 
ing materials. Thus in the case of sul¬ 
phate of potash the plant undoubtedly uses more of the base, potash, that it does of the acid and we speak of this substance as acid in tendency. On the other hand, with nitrate of soda, the plant requires more of the acid radical or nitrogen than it does of the base, soda, 
and we speak of this as basic in tendency. 
In accordance with these principles 
Mayer has classified certain manurial substances according to the following groups: 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


107 


1. Physiologically Neutral. 

Calcium sulphate (gypsum). 

Magnesium sulphate. 

Sodium chloride (common salt.) 

Superphosphate, (acid phosphate) 

Potassium nitrate. (This ap¬ 
proaches closely group 3). 

2. Physiologically Sour. 

Potassium chloride (muriate of potash). 

Ammonium sulphate. 

Potassium sulphate. 

German potash salts in general. 

3. Physiologically Basic. 

Calcium carbonate. 

Wood ashes. 

Caustic lime. 

Potassium carbonate. 

Undissolved calcium phosphate. 

Sodium nitrate (nitrate of soda.) 

Bone meal. 

(Loew would probably place super¬ 
phosphates with the physiologically sour materials.) Such a classification will be helpful in determining whether certain systems of fertilizing are tending to in¬ 
crease or decrease the natural acidity of the soil. (Shell hammocks, and places where limestone and marl come near the surface are not likely to be acid.) 

LIME NOT INCOMPATIBLE WITH SUPER¬ 
PHOSPHATES. 

There has been a wide-spread belief that liming decreases the efficiency of su¬ 
perphosphates, the theory being that the soluble phosphoric acid unites with the lime to form insoluble phosphate of lime. 
However, Wheeler at Rhode Island has shown with different crops and with ten 


different phosphates (including four su¬ 
perphosphates), on land deficient in car¬ 
bonate of lime, that liming greatly in¬ 
creases the yield in almost every case. I 
give herewith his results with Mangel 
Wurzels. 

Mangel Wurzel (Norbiton Giant) 

Limed Unlimed 


Dissolved bone-black. 328 3 

Dissolved bone . 380 101 

Acid phosphate . 340 8 

Fine ground steamed bone . 447 16 

Basic slag meal (“Thomas” phosphate) 362 73 

Floats . 223 0 

Raw iron and aluminum phosphate 36 0 

Roasted iron and aluminum phosphate 153 0 

No phosphate . 40 0 

Double superphosphate . 145 1 


Very similar results, though not quite so striking, were obtainea with Swedish turnips and German golden millet. From these it will be seen that with the four superphosphates (acid phosphate, dissolv¬ 
ed bone, dissolved bone black, and double superphosphate), the yield was invaria¬ 
bly greater where lime was used than where it was omitted. From this it would appear that the efficiency of superphos¬ 
phates is not lessened by the use of lime. 

LIME NEEDED WHERE IRON HARDPAN OC¬ 
CURS. 

Several writers have called attention to the fact that the efficiency of phosphates is increased by the use of lime, where iron and alumina occur in considerable quan¬ 
tities. If there is a deficiency of lime there is a tendency for the soluble phos¬ 
phoric acid to unite with the iron and alumina, forming insoluble phosphates of these metals. If, however, the soil is well supplied with lime the phosphoric acid would unite with this to form phosphate of lime. In this connection Hilgard 









108 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


says, “Very large percentages of ferric 
(iron) hydrate may, especially in the ab¬ 
sence of lime carbonate, render even large supplies of phosphoric acid inert and use¬ 
less by the formation of a totally insoluble ferric (iron) phosphate/’ It is probable that the free use of carbonate of lime on iron hardpans, which occur to a consider¬ 
able extent in this State, would have a beneficial effect, by preventing the phos¬ 
phoric acid from combining with the iron. 
The fact that we find phosphoric acid in most of the rocks containing iron, may 
I believe, be taken as evidence that there is this tendency for the phosphoric acid to combine with iron. 

CONCLUSIONS. 

After all it is not so much a question of whether we use n or 13 per cent, of 


potash or 5 or 6 per cent, of phosphoric acid. When the crop is gathered we would probably not be able to detect a difference of one or two per cent., for we usually apply more than the plant can utilize. It is a question of getting the greatest possible benefit from the 5 per cent, of phosphoric acid or the 11 per cent, of potash that we do apply. If un¬ 
favorable conditions make the greater portion of this ineffective, it may mean a shortage in crop returns of 1-4, 1-3 or even 1-2 and this becomes a serious mat¬ 
ter. There is, I believe, room for great improvement along the line of making the fertilizers that we use more effective. 
The profits will come not so much from saving the cost of one or two per cent, 
of plant food, but rather from the in¬ 
creased yields due to deriving full bene¬ 
fit from the whole amount applied. 


STUDIES. 


Mrs. N. M. Prange. 


Mr. President , Ladies and Gentlemen : 

This paper, like my others, is not claim¬ 
ed to be in any way the product of orig¬ 
inal research, but is the result of careful study. Really during the past twenty years, I have had a great deal of practi¬ 
cal experience with Florida soil in the production of both fruit and vegetables, 
but this has only helped me to under¬ 
stand my studies, for before taking up this fad, I gave but superficial attention 


to the groves and while managing the truck farm, brought about enviable re¬ 
sults by plain common sense, or perhaps it was nothing but luck. At any rate it was by no scientific knowledge. As I look back to those days I can see where I 
could have saved work and made even more money by actually understanding what I was doing. 

It has been my aim in these papers to- 
show people who do not aspire to become leaders in this line of thought, how easy 




FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


it is to grasp the fundamental principles, 
the understanding of which adds so much more to the life which they are following from both mental and financial points of view. 

Our first step at this time is to examine the plant. Whether tree or vegetable the process of growing is practically the same. 
There are three distinct parts,—the roots, 
the stem and the foliage. Different veg¬ 
etations have different root systems, but all are alike in 'that there is no real open¬ 
ing into the roots, therefore all nourish¬ 
ment must be taken in liquid form: also in that it is only near the tips of the root¬ 
lets that the absorption of fluids—osmosis, 
it is called—can take place. 

The extreme tip of a rootlet is protect¬ 
ed by a hard cap that it may push its way through the soil, while its “feeding” sec¬ 
tion is often covered with hair-like protu¬ 
berances, multiplying the surface many times. These tiny rootlets also give off certain acids which render soluble much plant food that cannot be dissolved by water alone. 

It is a root’s nature to avoid light and to seek moisture. It will go in the line of the least resistance, growing around obstructions, and wherever a good feeding ground is found rootlets are formed rap¬ 
idly, giving full service to the plant which they support. If, however, the environ¬ 
ment is not congenial, rootlets wither and die, and the plant receives no nourish¬ 
ment from that portion of its root system. 
Roots demand a proper supply of both air and water. To supply this demand the grower must cultivate his soil proper¬ 
ly. Lumpy soil is bad for several rea¬ 
sons. The hard lumps act as obstructions, 


1(D 

wasting the energy of the roots as they grow around them! and checking capillary action by the large spaces between them. 
The excess of air in these spaces rapidly dries out any moisture that the rains may give such soil so that often the rootlets die in the attempt to encompass such ob¬ 
structions. Plants must have water not only for itself but as a vehicle of food. 
The ability to hold moisture decides to a great degree the productiveness of a soil. 
Fine particles of soil not only increase capillary action by which underground water is brought to the plant’s service but they present much greater surface to re¬ 
tain the rain water and to be acted upon by dissolvent forces. We all know how much more readily a lump of sugar dis¬ 
solves when crushed, and in the same way all other things yield to dissolution ac¬ 
cording to the surface exposed to attack. 
Soil should hold water in a film around each particle—as seen on an orange that has just been dipped in water—and this is all it will retain when there is a chance for the water to pass off. If there is a lack of drainage so water fills the spaces between these particles there is no room for air and therefore the supply of oxy¬ 
gen necessary to the bacteria of the soil is shut off and trouble begins. 

We must not look upon the earth as an inert mass. A fertile soil is alive with bac- 
.teria. Bacteria are the lowest form of vegetable life,—tiny one-celled plants— 
but their influence for good or ill is incal¬ 
culable. We who are working the soil are more especially interested in nitrify¬ 
ing bacteria which are essential to the changing of nitrogen to nitric acid, or in other words, making the element nitrb- 





no 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


gen available for plant food. These bac¬ 
teria can thrive only where there are the right degrees of moisture and heat, and freedom from acid conditions:—hence another great value in perfect tilth and proper drainage. On the other hand where excessive moisture and acidity ex¬ 
ist, the denitrifying bacteria thrive. These tiny plants take oxygen from seemingly every combination found but their work is especially noticeable where by the breaking up of these combinations it sets the element nitrogen free and thus allows it to escape from the soil. Thus poor tilth and drainage not only prevent an increase of fertility but cause actual loss of the most valuable plant food the soil contains. 

We have dwelt in particular upon the desirability of having fine soil particles, 
but it is possible to have soil too fine to give best results. This is sometimes the case in clay lands and is particularly true in “puddled” soil, for “puddling” the soil is done by disturbing it when there is so much water present as to allow the soil grains to move freely about and be¬ 
come placed in the most compact posi¬ 
tion. This prevents proper circulation of air and often causes so much trouble from the effects on bacterial conditions and the general texture of the soil that it will take two or three years to overcome the results of a few hours ill-advised cultiva¬ 
tion. 

There has been so much agitation about the necessity of supplying humus to the land, that every grower recognizes the value of humus though often he is rather bewildered as to the reasons therefor. 
Humus is plant food to be sure, but that 


is its least value. It retains moisture and with it the plant food this moisture con¬ 
tains. It is said that a soil well-filled with humus will hold eight times as much wa¬ 
ter as one entirely lacking this valuable constituent. Humus is a most congenial dwelling place and also a food for nitri¬ 
fying bacteria, therefore, causes great multiplication of these useful organisms. 
Humus also does much good by improv¬ 
ing the texture of the soil. When the land is sandy and too open, the finer par¬ 
ticles of humus help to correct that con¬ 
dition, and the humus is coarser than the soil particles of clay, so it opens up such land to freer circulation of air and all the accompanying benefits. One can hardly overestimate the value of humus, 
but still he must realize that its greatest value comes through its retention of plant-food-laden soil water which oth¬ 
erwise would carry its precious burden onward to the drains. 

When the vegetation which produces this humus is grown on the ground over summer the fresh green blanket protects the soil from the excessive heat of the sun and thereby removes a great factor in the creating of acid conditions. However, 
the grower should never turn under this green vegetation or its fermentation will cause it to be a source of great harm in¬ 
stead of benefit. It should be dead and dry before being incorporated with the soil. 

Land should be thoroughly prepared before planting any kind of crop, whether it be grove or garden, and thereafter worked with due care for the roots. It is not consistent to strive to create a root system to feed trees or plants and then de- 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Ill 


liberately impair that system to such an extent as to reduce its strength from 25 
to 50 per cent; yet that is what many a grower does time and again. During proper seasons land should be given shal¬ 
low cultivation to conserve moisture by creating a dust mulch and to avoid a crusting over which shuts off the circula¬ 
tion of air, but this cultivation should never disturb the plant’s roots. There is another most important reason why the gardener should cultivate frequently, and especially after a rain, and that is to keep the soil black. White reflects, black ab¬ 
sorbs, heat. With other conditions the same a dark soil is several degrees warm¬ 
er than a light one, and those few degrees in temperature will often increase the growth of the plant wonderfully. 

The plant needs in its construction about fourteen different elements but Na¬ 
ture makes a bountiful provision for all except nitrogen, phosphorus, potash and sometimes calcium, so we need to study only these which we have occasion to sup¬ 
ply. Chemistry teaches us that plant food is plant food wherever found, but prac¬ 
tical experience teaches us that the form and surroundings of that plant food have great influence on its effect. 

In all animal substances as well as in vegetable matter, the breaking down of existing combinations which we call “de¬ 
cay” creates more or less acidity accord¬ 
ing to the condition and surroundings of these substances. If there is an abun¬ 
dant supply of air, enough but not too much moisture, and the temperature is neither too high nor too low, nitrates are formed from the nitrogen, and the humus contained in the vegetable or animal mat¬ 


ter is a valuable addition to the land. So, 
under right conditions, organic sources of plant food, though the slowest of all “am- 
moniates” are desirable except for the cit¬ 
rus family. But if the weather be cold or the soil lacking in moisture the decay is so slow as to be scarcely perceptible, 
while if there is an excess of water, hu¬ 
mic and other deleterious acids are form¬ 
ed in place of nitrates and instead of plant food we have plant poison. This latter condition readily arises under the combined influences of the summer’s heat and heavy rains. 

We have noted the needed presence of certain bacteria to transform the element nitrogen to plant food. Their work is to combine oxygen with nitrogen to make nitric acid. After they have done this, 
it is most important that there be at hand a bountiful supply of base to unite with this nitric acid and form nitrates, and to neutralize, not only the nitric acid but all other acids. If base is lacking ft must be supplied before good results can be ob¬ 
tained, and it is at such times that we need a knowledge of the different forms of calcium. The form generally preferred is 'the carbonate of lime found in ashes and air-slacked lime, but the hydrated, 
the “quick” or caustic lime, and also the finely powdered limestone have their places. 

The chemical nitrates are the quickest acting sources of “ammonia” that we can apply, as they are ready for the plant’s use as soon as dissolved and so* deliques¬ 
cent that they invariably find enough moisture to dissolve them, therefore they are most valuable to start a quick growth, 
especially in a dry season. The great 


112 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


drawback to their use for a full supply of nitrogen is the waste that is bound to occur when rains come before the plant has used it all. Nitrate of soda and ni¬ 
trate of potash are our general sources of this form of plant food at the present time, though calcium nitrate is knocking at the door of the fertilizer market. The nitrate in each of these materials is in exactly the same form. The soda in one and the lime in another tending to sweet¬ 
en the soil, while the pdtash in the nitrate of potash is the straight K2O plant food. 

Another chemical used is sulphate of ammonia which in its action is slower than the nitrates but quicker than organic matter, even when favorable conditions surround 'the latter. It also is surer in its action and free from the disagreeable features attending the change of organic nitrogen to ammonia. The continued use of this chemical will call for an applica¬ 
tion of lime, as its chemical reactions in the soil cause loss of lime; but this is a small drawback in comparison with its incalculable value, especially to the citrus grower. 

Much attention has been given to the effects these varying sources have upon plant life. Generally speaking, the citrus tree demands chemical sources, the pine¬ 
apple, organic sources, while the garden products need the different sources in well-balanced proportions. These sources are all classed as “ammoniates.” 

Now we come to the essential termed 
“phosphoric acid”—another misnomer— 
for there is no real acid in any properly prepared fertilizer. All chemical fertil¬ 
izers are in the form of salts. A salt, as explained in last year’s paper, is the re¬ 


sult of an acid being destroyed by a base displacing the hydrogen. In nitrate of soda, sodium has driven out the hydro¬ 
gen, while in nitrate of potash, hydrogen has been exchanged for potash. In the first, the plant extracts the nitrogen from the radical of the acid, while in the last it takes food from both radical and base. In sulphate of ammonia, it is the base we think about as furnishing plant food after the necessary nitrifying process, though both sulphur and oxygen are essential to the plant’s development. In the sulphates of potash it is also the base that is bought for food. The ammonia in sulphate of ammonia and the potash in the sulphate of potash are combined with the radical of sulphuric acid—exactly the same part of sulphuric acid that exists in sulphate of lime and every other sulphate—just the sulphur and oxygen. These elements are absolutely harmless unless combined with hydrogen in certain proportions to form an acid. There is no possibility of reaction taking place for the hydrogen has been defeated in a fair fight. The base has stronger attractions or it could not have displaced it. It is on this prin¬ 
ciple of “a fair fight and no favor” that our phosphoric acid is made available for use. The radical of phosphoric acid is the form from which the plant gets its phos¬ 
phorus, but in the natural state this rad¬ 
ical is in such close combination with lime that neither water nor the exudations from the plant roots can do much in the way of breaking the chemical forces; but, 
fortunately for the grower, the chemist’s skill can overcome this difficulty and we have either dissolved bone or acid phos¬ 
phate to apply to our fields, knowing that 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


113 


in both ingredients we have a mono-cal¬ 
cium phosphate and a sulphate of lime. 
The same form of plant food is in each, 
but it is accompanied by a little more sul¬ 
phate of lime in the acid phosphate than in the dissolved bone. This sulphate of lime is really no plant food, but it has a wonderful influence on the crops because of the chemical changes caused by its presence in the soil, through which much latent plant food becomes available. Such an agent is termed a “catalyzer” and it is now generally recognized that phospho¬ 
ric acid is also a great catalyzer, and that it well pays to apply far more than is ac¬ 
tually needed by the plant, because of this quality. Another effect of a large phosphoric content is a tendency to has¬ 
ten maturity. This is a detriment in the raising of some crops, beans and celery, 
for instance, but the citrus grower who wishes to avail himself of the advantages of an early market finds this fact of great value.' 

Basic slag is another source of phos¬ 
phoric acid. It is very slow acting and its value is still undetermined. 

Peruvian guano is called a phosphatic fertilizer, but contains some of all four essentials. Though of organic origin, it cannot be classed as an organic fertilizer, 
really, for its condition is such that al¬ 
though it has all the virtues of organic matter it has none of the evils, therefore it can be used in citrus culture. Indeed, 
under some circumstances and when re¬ 
enforced with the correct proportions of the proper chemicals, it stands pre-emi¬ 
nent. 

We have given considerable force to the word available because in both am- 


moniates and phosphatic goods, the “plant food” is so likely to be useless to the plant. 
When there is an abundance of unavaila¬ 
ble plant food in even the poorest soils, 
why add more? The value in applied fer¬ 
tilizer is in its quick results . If we have to wait until the next year or the next gen¬ 
eration to get returns for the money in¬ 
vested this year we are losing the use of our money, for there is only the plant food we have paid for and the longer it stays in the soil the longer our money is locked up. Some people have expatiated upon the effects shown in after years. A 
certain amount of plant food will produce only certain results and the longer it takes for it to produce these results, the more time there is for wastes through drainage, 
etc. A grower should build up the text¬ 
ure of his soil by proper tillage and the addition of humus, but Nature has fore¬ 
stalled him in furnishing unavailable plant foods. 

All our potashes are water soluble and in the same form whether from organic sources, ashes, or from the different pot¬ 
ash salts—nitrate, sulphates, muriate or kainit. They differ only as to their sur¬ 
roundings. The organic source used is pulverized tobacco stems and the one drawback is the extreme high cost. This precludes its general use. The potash in ashes also costs so high that ashes are in¬ 
variably bought because of other qualities and not for their potash content. We have already taken up nitrate of potash under the nitrates, and dealt with sulphate of potash under our talk about acids. We would mention, however, that the low grade sulphate of potash contains a large percentage of sulphate of magnesia and is 


114 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


liked by the citrus grower because this magnesia acts readily as a base and aids in sweetening the land. Muriate of pot¬ 
ash is the richest of the potash salts, but because of its chlorine content cannot be used on certain crops. It is especially un¬ 
desirable for citrus trees and tobacco. 
Ivainit has even more chlorine, part of which is in combination with sodium, 
making about one-third of kainit our or¬ 
dinary salt. This is quite effective in vegetable raising for driving away in¬ 
sects and some fungous troubles, but for many crops would need to be applied at least a month before planting or it would 
“burn” the plants. 

Thus we have much to think about when trying to supply food to vegetation just what sources—just what propor¬ 
tion each of the different forms of am¬ 
monia used should make of the whole am¬ 
monia content, that there be no lack, no waste,—just how much phosphoric acid and potash to put with this ammonia to give exact balance to this particular crop. 
It is a long, long lesson and one that must be worked out in the field; but when it comes to mixing these ingredients, how many times does the lack of chemical knowledge cause great loss! I know, 
personally, one prominent gardener who mixes ashes with his fertilizer and chuck¬ 
les as he smells the escaping ammonia, 
because the mixture is “so strong .” It has often seemed to me that one of the wisest sayings I ever heard in regard to home mixing of fertilizer was: “The man who knows enough to mix his fertilizer, 
generally knows enough not to” 

Let us for a closing paragraph briefly note the course of the plant food after it 


enters the plant. It is absorbed through cell walls as through the walls of the rootlets and passes from cell to cell up¬ 
ward, remaining the same crude sap, in¬ 
capable of nourishing the plant, until it reaches the leaves. There it is “digested” 
and becomes “elaborated” sap capable of forming live substance, first in the veg¬ 
etable kingdom and then on to animal matter. This change can take place only in those portions of the plant which are green in color, being the result of the combined action of chlorophyll and sun¬ 
light. Chlorophyll is the green substance in leaves, young twigs and immature fruit and while absolutely necessary to higher plant life, is powerless to act except un¬ 
der the influence of the sun. All growers appreciate the value of color in the leaf, 
but many fail to realize the great impor¬ 
tance of abundant foliage and of giving sunlight free access to same. Dense growth encourages disease as well as in¬ 
sects. 

From the leaves, the elaborated sap goes by way of the inner bark to supply the various needs of the plant. 

Three questions naturally arise: Why does the soil moisture enter the plant? 
Why does it work upward? How is it that the right materials are carried to the right places to supply the plant’s needs, 
if these materials are at hand, and after the need of a certain substance is supplied, 
generally speaking, the roots take up no more of that substance, however plenti¬ 
fully it may lie around them? 

The first is answered by the fact that the soil water is less heavily laden with plant food than the plant’s juices ~o it pushes its way into the cells. The up- 



FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


115 


ward circulation is caused by this action combined with capillary attraction and the tendency of Nature to fill space, and space for more sap is constantly being made by evaporation from the leaves. 
The return circulation is aided by the heavier weight of the elaborated sap, but as to the rest—well, I have studied at¬ 
tempts to explain this and have found only very lame “explanations.” We are dealing with live substance that exercises a control of its functions not possessed by inert matter. As my entire work has been seeking to understand with a view to acting in accord with Nature, and I 
fail to see how I could take any part in this work were it possible to understand it, I simply accept it as one of God’s great mysteries and bow my head in reverence for His wondrous works. 


Acknowledgments are due to the effi¬ 
cient State workers whom I have men¬ 


tioned as having helped me from the be¬ 
ginning of my studies. They are tire¬ 
less in their efforts, recommending lines of study and carefully explaining any ob¬ 
scure points. The past year Profs. Floyd 
Fawcett and Vernon and Dr. Berger have been especially helpful. 

Books Studied: “Agriculture for 
Southern Schools” under the correspond¬ 
ence course conducted by Prof. Vernon. 
Earle’s “Southern Agriculture,” John¬ 
son’s “How Crops Feed” and “How 
Crops Grow,” Master’s “Plant Life on the Farm,” King’s “The Soil,” Hilgard’s 
“Soil,” Stevens’ “Plant Anatomy,” 
Peirce’s “Plant Physiology,” Greiner’s 
“How to Make the Garden Pay,” and many special crop books like Fraser’s 
“The Potato” and Tracy’s “Tomato Cul¬ 
ture,” as well as books on combating in¬ 
sects and diseases like Lodeman’s “The 
Spraying of Plants,” etc. 




Corn As a Second Crop 


E. S. Hubbard. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

The vegetable crops of Florida are mainly grown in the winter and early spring, and whether profitable or not the greatest economy in farm management the grower can accomplish is to follow the vegetable crops as far as necessary with forage crops for the farm animals and poultry, and of these forage crops the most important is corn. 

The southern types of corn are richer in protein than the more starchy north¬ 
ern varieties and form a more complete food for stock. The Michigan Experi¬ 
ment Station has shown that horses will endure as much work on the same weight of corn as of oats at less expense, and I 
have kept my own horses in good health and condition for several years on no other grain than home grown corn. 
Ground on the cob with addition of a lit¬ 
tle cotton seed meal, home grown corn makes an inexpensive food for milk cows and the feed bill for poultry be¬ 
comes almost a negligible quantity where there is a well filled corn crib to draw on with a sheller standing by the door. 

In choosing varieties the flinty ones should be selected to minimize the loss by weevils and the farmer should select his seed carefully to improve and perpetuate the type he wants. Taking one season 


with another I do not consider it profita¬ 
ble on my soil to grow the socalled pro¬ 
lific varieties setting several small ears to the stalk which under unfavorable con¬ 
ditions go largely to nubbins and require a great deal more labor to harvest and shell. For the past three years I have been growing Cocke’s Prolific which I 
think gives me better average results than any I have tried. This variety shows eight, ten and twelve row ears, the ten row predominating, and sets mostly two ears to the stalk. By selecting twelve row flinty ears I have largely eliminated the eight row and reduced the number of ten row ears. Under my conditions two ears to the stalk, twelve rows to the ear seems to produce the maximum yield at the minimum expense of handling. 

I plant in drills with a two row west¬ 
ern style planter after digging Irish po¬ 
tatoes last of April, without giving the land any preparation and the dried up vines give very little trouble. 

This planter puts in one and one-half acres per hour with fair length rows. I 
plant in rows three feet four inches apart the same width as my Irish potato rows and lay by the corn in similar ridges as for Irish potatoes, driiling cow peas in the furrows with the planter when laying by the corn. When the corn crop is har- 



FLORIDA 3TATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


117 


vested by husking in the field I drag down the stalks with a cutaway harrow and then split the ridges with a sulky disk cultivator followed by a middle burster thereby listing all the stalks, pea vines, 
etc., into the furrows and ridging the land for the coming winter’s Irish potato crop. There is a marked improvement in the fertility of land where trash is con¬ 
served as humus instead of being burned off. After the corn has dried out several weeks on a floor, I keep it in old straw¬ 
berry refrigerators which are rat proof and as warm weather comes on about once a month pour in a little bi-sulphide of carbon to kill the weevils. I expect to shell, sack and sell more than enough corn each year to pay for making the 


crop. 1 estimate my average yearly yield at thirty bushels of shelled corn per acre chough sometimes the best land will run as high as fifty bushels. Several south¬ 
ern experiment stations have proved it does not pay to pull corn fodder, the loss in weight and solidity of the corn costing more than the fodder is worth. After leveling the potato land crab grass comes in plentifully, and two cuttings, August and October, average at least four tons of hay per acre. 

With home grown corn and hay as ro¬ 
tation summer crops for the winter veg¬ 
etables, the Florida farmers have a great advantage for the acreage cultivated over their northern brethren. 









Ornamentals 


■ r . ■■ 

THE MOST BEAUTIFUL JAPANESE AND CHINESE EVERGREENS 

FOR OUR FLORIDA GARDENS. 


H. Nehrling. 


Mr. President , and Ladies and Gentlemen 

of the State Horticultural Society: 

There is no country in the world where flowers, trees, shrubs are so universally beloved as in Japan. 
They are inseparable from the life, art and literature of the people, 
and to deprive the Japanese of their flow¬ 
ers would be to take 'the sunshine out of their lives. Beautiful plants are enjoyed equally by the high and low. The charm¬ 
ing natural landscapes of the mountain sides, of glades and glens and along the lakes and rivers are a continual pleasure to one and all. The richer classes, in the seclusion of their well-kept gardens, can almost constantly feast their eyes on the beautiful, while the poor have the benefit of the public parks, gardens and flower shows, and even the poorest of the poor devote a few cents of their earnings to the gratification of their taste. Flowers in beautiful and tasteful china pots or vases are everywhere present, and the private grounds—but particularly the temple gardens—are replete with floral treasures. They were the delight of the 


first explorers. The pioneer botanists and horticultural collectors raved over the many new and extremely beautiful plants, 
which they discovered in the gardens and forests of this island empire. In fact 
Japan, and more recently also China, have been almost inexhaustible treasure grounds for the plant collector. Our gar¬ 
dens are at present replete with plants from these far-eastern countries. I shall mention here only a few. The Japanese 
Lilies are the most exquisite, the most beautiful in the world. The Chrysanthe¬ 
mum reigns supreme in our flower shows in November. The Japanese or Kaemp- 
fer’s Iris with its huge flowers in many fantastic colors is a glory in many of our moist gardens, while the Paeony is the undisputed queen of June at the north. 
Unfortunately only a few of these plants succeed well in Florida. But we have the gorgeous Camellia or Japonica, as it is universally called in the south. We have the deliciously scented Banana Shrub, the 
Cape Jasmine or Gardenia, the Pittos- 
porum and the Loquat, the Hortensia or 
Hydrangea, the evergreen Azaleas, the gorgeous Fortune’s double Yellow Rose, 




FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


119 


and the dense Cherokee, Banksia and Mc¬ 
Cartney Roses, all hailing from Japan and 
China. For our subtropical gardens most of these, including the Bamboos, are ideal plants in every respect. They are ex¬ 
tremely beautiful, but not more beautiful than our own natives. It should always be kept in mind that the native plants must form the foundation of every gar¬ 
den. Among palms the Cabbage Palmet¬ 
to, and in extreme southern Florida, the 
Royal Palm should always occupy the first place. There is no more beautiful flowering evergreen tree in the world than our native Magnolia grandiflora. 
The charming Loblolly Bay, the Dahoon and the Holly, the American Olive, have all characters of their own, and when well-grown, are not outrivalled by exotic forms. The Live Oak is as beautiful as it is picturesque, and the Laurel Cherry, 
very dense and bushy, is a tree always graceful and conspicuous. Our native 
Juniper, commonly known as the Flori¬ 
da Red Cedar, can rival in beauty with many exotic conifers. The Wax Myrtle cannot be missed in landscape gardening, 
its broad bushy growth, and the faint brownish cast in the green of its aromatic foliage makes it particularly effective. In¬ 
deed we could make beautiful gardens in using only our native plants were we de¬ 
prived of exotic material. But variety is the spice of life, and in horticulture we look constantly for variety. The larger the number of species we grow, the more different their forms and flowers, the greater and the more lasting will be our pleasure. There cannot be the least doubt that the beautiful Japanese and 


Chinese plants supplement happily our own native species. 

I have experimented largely during the last twenty-five years with Japanese and 
Chinese plants, particularly with broad- 
leafed evergreens, having imported di¬ 
rectly from Yokohoma and Tokio large consignments. Many were the losses and few the results at first. But the blame was on my part, not on that of the plants. 
All these plants arrive with rootballs of heavy soil. If set out with the ball this dries out in our dry season, the roots can¬ 
not penetrate into the surrounding soil, 
and the plant is invariably lost after struggling hard for life. Every particle of soil must be shaken or washed off, 
and the plant cut back and re-set. If transplanted in good rich soil, it will usually grow. The right time for plant¬ 
ing is November and December. Out of a number of about 150 distinct species, I 
have found that the following are a per¬ 
fect success in my high pineland garden of western Orange county. 

Michelia fuscata —Banana Shrub or 
Banana Magnolia, is the jewel among all these plants. Flowers here at the begin¬ 
ning of April. Blossoms creamy white, 
each petal faintly edged violet. Strongly and deliciously fragrant, the fragrance reminding of ripe bananas. The form of the shrub, which eventually attains a height of 15 feet with a crown diameter of 10 to 12 feet, is extremely graceful. 
A native of China but largely cultivated in Japan, 

Michelia compressa —A native of southern Japan. The flowers, which are very fragrant, are pale yellow and over 



120 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


an inch in diameter. It grows well but is often infested with scale insects. 

Illicium religiosnm —The Japanese 
Star Anise shrub, is a very bushy grow¬ 
ing, beautiful and interesting plant. The leaves when crushed are strongly aromat¬ 
ic, reminding of sassafras, and the small inconspicuous flowers exhale also a faint perfume. It attains a height of 15 feet. 
The lower growth is very broad and at the top it tapers to a narrow point. It is one of the sacred plants of Japan, al¬ 
ways planted in the neighborhood of tem¬ 
ples and common in private gardens. 
From the powdered bark, mixed with re¬ 
sin are prepared the “smoke candles,” 
with which incense is made in the tem¬ 
ples. I have quite a number of fine speci¬ 
men plants, which grow luxuriantly on high pineland. The Japanese and Chin¬ 
ese deciduous Magnolias,—almost ever¬ 
green in Florida—such as Magnolia Yu- 
lan, M. stellata, M. Soulangeana, M. ob- 
ovata, M. parviflora and M. Watsoni,—» 
grow well with me, flowering from No¬ 
vember to March. All my plants though healthy are rather stunted, never making such exquisite specimens as we see in Au¬ 
gusta, Ga., Atlanta, Washington or St. 
Louis where many of them grow to tree size and are masses of color in early spring, before the leaves appear. 

Camellia Japonica —One of the glories of our southern gardens, ranks very high as an ornamental shrub. Before the big freeze I have seen specimens from 20 to 
30 feet high in Tallahassee, Quincy and 
Monticello, and some about equally tall in Jacksonville. Camellias grow well ev- 
everywhere in my garden even in full sunshine, but they are doing best and 


flowering most profusely in half shade and in rich rather moist soil. There are hundreds of garden forms, double and single, and all are beautiful. 

Camellia reticulata —From Hong 
Kong and southern China, has very vivid rosy-red single and double flowers. It grows much better and flowers more pro¬ 
fusely than the common Camellia. 

Camellia Sasanqua —The Susan Ku- 
wa of Japan, is a small bushy tree of dense growth. There are single and double forms, some of them immaculately white. All the flowers are fragrant. They flower with me in November and Decem¬ 
ber. The double white form blooms most profusely at Christmas time. This species and its varieties is better adapted to our soil and climate than any other 
Camellia. 

Camellia Thea —The Tea Shrub, is a fine ornamental plant, perfectly at home in our State. It should be planted every¬ 
where where choice flowers are appre¬ 
ciated. The blossoms are single, pure white with a bunch of yellow stamens. 
Some forms are very fragrant. 

Cleyera Japonica —This is one of the most conspicuous and impressive of all my plants. The growth is dense and con¬ 
ical. The foliage is glossy green and of oval form. In May the nodding creamy white small flowers appear most profuse¬ 
ly, perfuming the air of the entire gar¬ 
den. In August the cherry like reddish, 
mealy fruits burst open and show the nu¬ 
merous vivid red seeds which form an additional charm. The old leaves as¬ 
sume a bright red color. 

Eurya Japonica —and its variegated forms are also charming shrubs, but need 



FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


121 


shade and some attention. This is usual¬ 
ly a small shrub only a few feet high, but 
Prof. C. S. Sargent saw a specimen in the woods surrounding a temple near Na- 
katsu fully 30 feet in height. The col?r of the leaves is yellowish green on the upper surface and decidedly yellow be¬ 
low. 

Ternstroemia Japonica —is another plant, like Cleyera Japonica, which is considered sacred by the votaries of the 
Shinto religion and therefore planted in the grounds of the Shinto temples and in most private gardens. Though the flow¬ 
ers cannot be considered showy the foli¬ 
age and the growth are very conspicuous. 
It thrives well in Florida and is always an object of great beauty. 

The finest and most beautiful of all the 
Hollies is the Japanese Ilex latifolia — 
perhaps the handsomest broad leaved ev¬ 
ergreen tree that grows in the forest of 
Japan. It is much cultivated in private and temple grounds. The leaves are about six inches long and four inches broad and very thick dark green and ex¬ 
ceeding lustrous. The large scarlet fruit of this tree, which does not ripen until the late autumn or early winter months, 
and which is produced in the greatest pro¬ 
fusion in axillary clusters, remains on the branches until the beginning of the fol¬ 
lowing summer. This holly forms beau¬ 
tiful specimens in our gardens and it should be largely planted not only on ac¬ 
count of its brilliant fruit but also on ac¬ 
count of the size and the character of its abundant foliage. It requires rich and rather moist soil, but succeeds well on high pine land. My largest specimens 


planted in 1897 are now about nine or ten feet high. 

Ilex Integra and I. rotunda —Both are doing well in good soil, but Ilex crenata does much better. It forms an exceeding¬ 
ly dense and beautiful shrub 3 to 4 feet high. The leaves are very glossy and not at all like those of our own hollies. 
The berries are black. It is much grown in Japan and is now common in this coun¬ 
try as far north as Philadelphia. Varie¬ 
ties with variegated foliage are common and apparently much esteemed. It is sur¬ 
prising that almost all the broad-leaved evergreens grown by the Japanese have produced in the course of time many sil¬ 
ver and golden variegated forms. They were carefully preserved and largely pro¬ 
pagated. Even among the bamboos and palms, the orchids and the herbaceous- 
perennials such variegated forms are nu¬ 
merous and highly prized by the Japan¬ 
ese.’ This fact shows plainly that these plants must have been grown in the Mi¬ 
kado’s empire since times immemorial. 

Other a laponica —Appears to be close¬ 
ly allied to the hollies. It is a dense ever¬ 
green shrub with glossy foliage and black berries. It grows well with me on high and low land. One of the founders of this society, the late Mr. E. H. Hart at 
Federal Point, informed me years ago that he had a specimen in his grounds fully 15 feet high and of a dense and compact habit. 

Euonymus laponicus —With green, sil¬ 
very and golden variegations in its abun¬ 
dant foliage is not as often seen in our gardens as its beauty justifies. The plain* 
green-leaved form is a very robust grow¬ 
er, but this is also' divided by the Japan- 


122 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


ese in quite a number of forms or varie¬ 
ties. There is one with very large glossy foliage, E. Japonicus var. macrophyllus, 
another with very small leaves, var. mi¬ 
cro phyllus, another one having an upright columnar habit, var. colmnnaris, etc. 
Very beautiful are the variegated forms, 
and as they can be used very effectively as ornamental border and hedge plants, 
they will prove valuable for our gardens. 
There are golden and silvery varie¬ 
gated forms with large and small leaves. The variety E. J. argen- 
teo — variegatus, has leaves edged with white, another form shows white blotches. The form E. J. aureus has leaves almost entirely golden yellow but when they get older they change mostly to a deep green. In E. J. aureo variega¬ 
tus, the leaves are blotched with yellow. 
There are other forms all very pretty. 
The Euonymus to do its best in our gar¬ 
dens needs a rich deep soil and during winter or in the rainy season an appli¬ 
cation of good fertilizer. All are small growing plants rarely exceeding 4 or 5 
feet in height. There is a scandent spe¬ 
cies, the climbing Euonymus (E. radi- 
cans ) common in middle and north¬ 
ern Japan, where it carpets the ground under forest trees and often climbs 20 feet high on the trunks, which it encircles with great masses of lustrous foliage. This fine climber is of great val¬ 
ue for decorating the bare trunks of pines and oaks in our gardens. I had most beautiful specimens of this species, also a number of variegated forms ( E. radicans var. argenteo — marginatus, with foliage bordered white; var. roseo-marginatus , 
with leaves bordered pink) but they were 


destroyed by a severe forest fire. This species requires shade and moist rich soil. 

Hydrangea Hortensia (the first as well as the second name are used in popular language)—is one of the greatest orna¬ 
ments of our gardens. Requires shade and rich moist soil. Attains a height of 
8 feet and is covered with hundreds of immense flower clusters in April, May and June. Growth very dense and bushy. 
The Japanese grow almost hundreds of distinct forms'of this plant and there are many of them in cultivation in this coun¬ 
try. The majority have beautiful rosy- 
red flower clusters but they all change to a beautiful deep azure blue, (or even into a kind of indigo blue) in our Florida soil. The following varieties are the best for our purposes. H. Hortensia — 
(first introduced from Japan in 1790 to 
France and named after Hortensia, the daughter of Empress Josephine and mother of Napoleon III). Common in our gardens. H. H. var. serrata , with serrated segments; H. H. var. nigra with dark purple or violet almost black stems, 
very distinct and beautiful. One of the best. H. H. var. Otaksa has white flow¬ 
ers, which do not change their color. H. 
H. var. Thomas Hogg is another fine form. These glorious plants deserve spe¬ 
cial plant sheds for their well-doing and. 
should be grown by the hundreds and thousands. 

Aralia papyrifera (Fatsia papyrifera) 
—A common and most impressive plant of our gardens. I remember having seen specimens 12 to 15 feet high and as much in diameter in Orlando years ago. In 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


123 


November they usually flowered, and were surrounded by numerous buzzing insects. 

The large, much lobed leaves, deep green above and silvery beneath are ex¬ 
tremely ornamental and when in flower the plant is still more conspicuous, though the large loose bunches of blossoms are only greenish white. This is the plant, 
which supplies the celebrated Japanese and Chinese rice paper. 

I have had no success with Aralia (Fat- 
sia) Japonic a and with the very orna¬ 
mental allied Dendropanax Japonicum. 
There is no doubt that I would be able to grow them to perfection now. My ex¬ 
periments were made ten to fifteen years ago. At that time I also experimented with the New Zealand Flax (Phormiuni tenax) and its varieties, and lost all plants. Last year I again made an at¬ 
tempt. I planted them out in my Cala- 
dium shed, and they are thriving vigor¬ 
ously. 

I have always admired the beautiful dense oval shaped specimens of the Ever¬ 
green Snowball in New Orleans and Mo¬ 
bile, where grand specimens 15 to 20 feet high can be seen in the gardens and parks. 
This is the fragrant Viburnum odoratis- 
simum. The foliage is large and lustrous, 
the branches dense, and the fragrant large flower trusses are produced in the early days of April. I have a fine speci¬ 
men in my garden but it is crowded to¬ 
gether with other shrubs. In order to admire its unique beauty of growth, it should stand aione in an isolated spot. 
It needs rich and rather moist soil for its development. Viburnum Azvafuki and the large leaved V. macrocephalum also 


grow well with us if they receive good care. Without cultivation and constant care few of these exotics thrive well in this sandy, thirsty and hungry soil. 

The Indian Azaleas (Azalea Indica), 
not an inhabitant of India but of sou¬ 
thern China, is one of our fashionable spring plants. The firm of Henry A. 
Dreer of Philadelphia alone imports from 
14 to 15 carloads each spring and all are sold out a few months later. In southern 
Georgia, I have seen gardens glowing with the beautiful shades of these gor¬ 
geous flowers. I saw them in masses and as single specimens. I was informed that they would not grow in Florida, but I 
have had beautiful healthy plants along the border of my lake. They were, un¬ 
fortunately, destroyed by fire. The most beautiful collection of these charming plants is undoubtedly found in the gar¬ 
dens of Mr. H. L. Beeman, of Orlando. 
In shady ravines along the shores of 
Lake Sue there are specimens 6 to S' feet high and these are a mass of blooms in late January and early February. 

Andromeda Japonica, and A. formosa, 
the latter with waxy white fragrant flow¬ 
er bells, thrive well in shady moist spots. 
Both are very handsome evergreens, the second species being the best of the two. 

Osmanthus aquifolium, the Holly¬ 
leaved Olive, forms a very fine dense tree in northern Florida, but in the southern part of the State it is only a rather small shrub 3 to 4 feet high with a compact head, loaded in October and November with small fragrant flowers. It can only be grown successfully in shady moist sit¬ 
uations. 


124 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Osmanthus fragrans, better known as 
Olea fragrans, the Sweet Olive, is a na¬ 
tive of China. Its strongly and delicious¬ 
ly fragrant flowers are produced here in the late fall or early winter months. This is a gem among shrubs, but though it thrives well in Florida, it never attains a large size. My plant is at least 16 years old but it is not taller than six or eight inches. I think it would prove a fine sub¬ 
ject for grafting on our native O. Amer¬ 
icana or on the True Olive. 

Ligastrum Japonicum —The Japanese 
Privet, is one of the finest avenue trees in 
New Orleans, being loaded in November with grape-like clusters of berries. The foliage is very dense and each leaf is ob¬ 
long and of a deep green color. It is not a success on high land but will un¬ 
doubtedly prove valuable on low rich moist soil. It has pendent branches, and is always very unique and conspicuous. 

Ehretia serrata is an interesting Chi¬ 
nese tree. The leaves are large and ser¬ 
rated, and in March large clusters of fra¬ 
grant milky white flowers appear. It thrives well on high and low land and is a rapid grower. My specimen comes from one of our most celebrated horticul¬ 
turists, Mr. Theod. L. Mead of Lake 
Charm. 

The Laurel family is richly represented in Japan and China, and almost all its members form very distinct and beautiful objects in our gardens. We all know the Camphor tree, Cinnamomum cam¬ 
phor a, which forms an ornament of many of our Florida gardens. Its dense growth and fine form speak for it every¬ 


where. Young specimens always look best. Old specimens are more picturesque than beautiful. 

Cinnamomum cassia, the Mock Cinna¬ 
mon Tree, is even more beautiful, a dense large leaved tree with bright glossy green foliage, which has a glaucous hue on the underside. It is a native of southern 
China and appears to be quite as hardy as the orange. There is a most beauti¬ 
ful group of these trees in Mr. E. N. 
Reasoner’s grounds at Oneco, Florida. It thrives well on high and low pine land. 
Cinnamomum Loureirii is a middle-sized tree from Hong Kong and Cochin China. 
Leaves large and glossy green, and the form of the dense growing mass of branches is rather globular. Cinnamomum pedunculatum from Japan, with thick deep green lustrous foliage, silvery white underneath, is also' well adapted to our gardens. Years ago I saw strikingly beautiful specimens of both of these two last species in the hotel grounds of the 
Sanford House at Sanford. The speci¬ 
mens were so dense and so extremely beautiful that they attracted my attention immediately. I have never been able to obtain plants of these two species. Ma- 
chilus Thunbergii and Litsea glauca are both handsome evergreen trees from Ja¬ 
pan, but they only thrive well in low rich soil. 

I cannot recommend the species of the genus Elaeagnus too highly. E. umbel- 
lata and E. longipes are two good fruit¬ 
bearing shrubs which grow finely in my garden and fruit abundantly. The first one ripens its almost cherry-like drupes, 
early in May, the latter in June and July. 
Both are interesting also from an orna- 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


125 


mental point of view. The following kinds, known also under the names of 
Oleasters and Silver Shrubs, belong to the finest and most beautiful of all our ornamental plants and thrive particularly well on high and dry pineland. All of these kinds are half climbing, densely ev¬ 
ergreen and of unique beauty. They all flower in November, perfuming the air to a great distance with their clove-like, 
or rather carnation-like odor. A little after New Year the bushes are covered with a profusion of oblong berries, which can be utilized for making jelly. The masses of new leaves, which appear in early April or late in March, are beauti¬ 
ful silvery white above and almost pure white underneath. When mature they are dark glossy green above and silvery below with numerous minute brown dots. 

Elaeagnus reflexa with blunt recurved hooks along its rampant shoots is the tallest grower. I have masses of them in my wild garden among young pines, 
which they cover completely. The shoots grow 15 to 30 feet in a few seasons. They are well adapted for covering young oaks, 
camphor trees, wild cherry trees, etc. 
The flowers are small whitish, of clove¬ 
like form and exhale a strong and most delicious perfume during November. The young shoots are cinnamon brown. 

E. pangens is not quite as rampant a grower but it soon forms dense masses of foliage and branches. The leaves are larger, deeper green and the branches are of a dark grayish color. The fruit is large and reminds of currants in taste. 
I have hybridized these two species and obtained a distinct kind with large fine fruit. 


There are silvery and golden forms of this species and all are beautiful. All grow well in rather dry soil. E. macro- 
phylla , the Large-leaved Silver Shrub, is perhaps the most beautiful of this group. 
It is a rampant and dense grower. All are well adapted for pergolas, garden houses, for ornamental hedges and for large groups among other trees. They are also fine as isolated specimens. They should be found in all our gardens. 

Pittosporum Tobira is an old inhabitant of our Gulf Coast gardens. In Mobile I 
have seen trees 20 to 25 feet high, em¬ 
bellished with a dense crown of glossy deep green oval foliage. The creamy or sulphur colored flowers, appearing in dense trusses at the ends of the shoots, 
are about as fragrant as orange blossoms. 
There was a fine tree of this pittosporum in the rear of the court house in Orlando, 
fully 15 feet high, but it has disappear¬ 
ed. 

Its variegated silvery form is rather dwarf ? forming dense flat heads about 5 
to 6 feet high. 

The Loquat, Eriobotrya Japonica is. 
one of the most beautiful ornamental trees we have. Its fine form, its large plaited foliage, its sweet-scented flowers, 
and its conspicuous fruit-clusters combine to make it an object of rare beauty. 

Daphniphyllum glancescens and D. ma- 
cropodon, Aucuba Japonica, Skimmia 
Japonica, the charming and deliciously fragrant Daphne odor a, thrive best in deep shade and in rich soil. All are very valuable evergreens of rather low growth. 
Damnacanthns Indians, a little spiny shrub with white fragrant flowers and red berries, grows in similar situations. 


126 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Photinia serrulata so common in the gardens of Georgia and northern Florida does not do so well in my garden as I 
desire. It would perhaps do well in mois- 
ter locations. 

Rhaphiolepis Indica from Hong Kong is a dense large growing shrub with glos¬ 
sy ovate leaves and clusters of fine white blossoms, covering the entire plant early in March. The young leaves are bright red. R. ovata is of low flat growth. 
Stereospermum sinicum and Strcmvaesia glanca are both Chinese evergreens of ex¬ 
ceptional beauty. 

Buddleia variabilis superba adds a new type of beauty to our gardens, when it has fully developed its numerous flower- 
shoots. The flowers are bluish violet, 
fragrant and appear here in Florida late in April. Nandina domestica, the Sacred 
Bamboo of Japan, is also a very interest¬ 
ing and beautiful plant. We must not omit from our list the Sago Palm, Cycas revoluta, which grows equally well on high and low land and is perfectly hardy 
.all over the State. 

The Windmill Palms, Tr achy carpits ex- 
celsa and T. Fortunei are rarely found in our gardens, though very distinct and handsome. There is a large fine speci¬ 
men of the first named species in Mr. W. 
J. Ellsworth’s garden at Jessamine, Fla. 


The two species of Bamboo Palms, 
Raphis dabelliformis and R. humilis, 
grow best in half shade among ferns and caladiums and such like plants. Both form eventually large clumps of many stems, the first one growing 6 to 8 feet high, while R. humilis never grows taller than about 3 to 4 feet. 

It would lead too far to go into detail in describing the many fine coniferous plants of Japan. I have only found the following adapted to our soil and climate. 
Podocarpus Japonica and P. Nagei, both requiring shade, and Cunninghamia Sin¬ 
ensis. 

Of the evergreen climbers the follow¬ 
ing may be mentioned : Kadsura Japonica, 
Stauntonia hexaphylla, St. macrophylla and Trachelodspermum jasminoides, all exquisite woody climbers. The two Hon¬ 
eysuckles, Lonicera Japonica and L. 
Halliana, are too well known to need to be recommended. 

I have now in my garden a large num¬ 
ber of tender evergreen trees and shrubs from Yunnan, southwestern China, which were collected recently by Mr. E. W. Wil¬ 
son for the Arnold Arboretum and which were sent to me by Prof. C. S. Sargent of Harvard University for experimental purposes. None of these novelties are yet named. This will be done as soon as they have flowered. 


W. J. Ellsworth. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

When we scan the pages of previous is¬ 
sues of the reports of this society in or¬ 
der to avoid what has gone before, it 


seems rather difficult to find anything to say that may be regarded as of sufficient value to justify taking the time of the so¬ 
ciety to say it. However, in a more or less general experience of upwards of 20 



FLORIDA ,ST ATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


127 


years in plant growing in this State there may be some bits of experience perhaps profitable to study, and these we will at¬ 
tempt to recall. 

We began the practice of horticulture, 
ornamental as well as practical, on a loca¬ 
tion among the sand hills of the West 
Coast with full confidence in the fertile soil of that locality and its advantageous situation beyond the reach of frosts, 
knowing (?) that here our much prized 
‘‘tender things” of glass houses and hot beds would laugh Old Boreas to scorn. 
In December we planted geraniums, helio¬ 
tropes, fuchsias, etc., not exactly for shade but to have some shrubbery about the place while our trees, such as helian- 
thus, ricinus, hollyhocks, rubber trees, 
etc., were coming on to make the perma¬ 
nent shade desired. For our hedges we could have nothing finer than asters, mig¬ 
nonette, candytuft, etc.; true some prun¬ 
ing might be required but our new hedge shears were equal to that. 

In the way of bulbous plants we had brought with us a good variety of tu¬ 
berous-rooted begonias, cyclamen, gold- 
enbanded and other lilies, tigridias, dah¬ 
lias, etc., all of which would be useful at the shows in the fall. All these w&re du¬ 
ly planted and started on their mission of the desert. During the succeeding weeks, while these things were forming that sturdy groundwork so necessary to a permanent structure, we indulged our¬ 
selves in numerous tours through the hammocks so common to our part of the 
State. 

In February something went wrong, 
somebody had made a mistake. And our embryo shade trees, hedges, etc., were 


prostrate in the grip of an icy norther. 
What was to be done ? Back to the woods we went to figure it out. After all per¬ 
haps nature knew what she was about, so we began again, with material from the hammock. We planted our “boulevard” 
with live oaks, water oaks, magnolias, 
red bay, gums, cherry laurel and Ameri¬ 
can holly, all of which are in abundant supply. 

For the embowering of our cottage we brought out cross vines, yellow jessa¬ 
mines, smilax, coral honeysuckles, trum¬ 
pet creepers and others. For shrubbery for so high and dry a situation we selected varieties found in the higher soils, such as azaleas, andromedas, gray beard or fringe tree, dog wood, and from the mud we took the needle palm, which has suc¬ 
ceeded admirably. 

As thorough work when planting is more than half the battle, we dug large holes, used an abundance of first class muck well mixed with the sand, pressed the soil firmly about the roots and water¬ 
ed liberally, after which the trees and shrubs took care of themselves. 

All the varieties named have proven well adapted to our light dry soil. Con¬ 
trary to all advices we have found the live oak equal in growth to the water oak. 

Some other plants found in the sand hills effective for use about our homes are “Butterfly flowers,” belonging to the milk-weed family. We have found nu¬ 
merous shades of orange and lemon col¬ 
ored flowers. These have thick, fleshy roots and transplant readily. They bloom in spring and early summer and individ¬ 
ual flowers hold quite a long time. 


128 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Liatris, or button snake root, in five or six varieties, mostly with light purple or magenta colored flowers; some bulbous rooted, others of a tuberous rooted na¬ 
ture. These bloom from September to 
November and are prominent in our list of fall blooming natives. 

There are also a number of varieties of wild asters which can probably be suc¬ 
cessfully placed under cultivation. Flow¬ 
ers one-half to one inch across, in shades of purple. 

Centrosema Virginiana, belonging to the pea family, is a charming little vine found along the edges of hammocks. 
The blooms, which are about i 1-2 inches across, come in various shades from lav¬ 
ender to light blue. 

But the season is advancing and we will leave the hammocks and study the lists of introduced plants. These we shall for convenience place under the head of Hardy, and Half Hardy. 

Among hardy plants are a number of 
Bamboos, which thrive well in almost any soil and are exceedingly handsome in ap¬ 
pearance. Bambusa argentea, and its varie¬ 
gated relative, argentea striata, are spe¬ 
cially vigorous growers in the hardy class, 
attaining a height of 30 to 40 feet, and may be considered of value for the pur¬ 
pose of windbreaks. Bambusa metake is a handsome dwarf sort, with broad leaves, 
attaining a height of 8 to 12 feet. The 
Golden Bamboo, Bambusa aurea, spreads rapidly by means of underground stems and is likely to prove a- nuisance on a lawn. 

For general purposes the Oleander may be classed as hardy though usually in¬ 
jured more or less by our extreme cold 


waves. While some of the varieties are well known, the family as a whole does not receive the attention deserved. Of easy growth, good decorative appearance and with an abundant return in the way of deliciously fragrant flowers during many weeks of spring and early summer, 
planting has mostly been limited to four or five sorts. That there is quite an ex¬ 
tended list of varieties does not seem gen¬ 
erally known. We find in one Florida catalogue a list of 17 varieties, consisting of double and single forms of red, pink, 
white and cream and various shades and markings in pink and white. 

The Crape Myrtle is also a very satis¬ 
factory hardy shrub of easy growth. For weeks in summer covered with great glowing umbels of flowers in many shades of color from lightest pink to crimson and purple. The white variety has not proved as good a grower with us as the other sorts but its delicate beauty justifies all necessary coddling. 

Pomegranates are also well worth a place in any grounds. Their glowing scar¬ 
let flowers resembling a bouquet of crape set in a crimson wax holder are very con¬ 
spicuous and pleasing amid the deep green foliage of the plant, while the large apple-like fruits are much esteemed by many who use their juice in making drinks. 

The Silk Oak, though not literally hardy with us, survives all except the most severe freezes, and excepting the winter of 1894-5 has not been cut back severely by cold. Its racemes of curious yellow and purple flowers are very at¬ 
tractive and the tree itself presents a striking and handsome appearance. 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


129 


In the Camellia family we have a good range of sorts of great beauty. While we have not found the Camellia to thrive in full sun we have had good results grow¬ 
ing the plants in half shade. 

A very showy family of plants is the 
Chinese Azalea. Of dwarf, compact hab¬ 
it these plants so cover themselves with bloom as to almost conceal the foliage, 
and resemble huge bouquets. The varie¬ 
ties, of which there is quite a wide range, 
come in various shades and markings of pink, crimson, white, etc., and in double and single forms. These do well in a light soil in partial shade. 

The Sweet Olive, or Tea Olive, is a plant of easy growth and very desirable. 
Its dwarf habit and dark green foliage form a pleasing appearance, and it pro¬ 
duces freely in spring quantities of small, 
cream colored flowers with a most charm¬ 
ing ripe peach fragrance. 

One of the most peculiarly striking plants in our list is the Bottle Brush, the name of which adequately describes the blooms. These are developed in clusters four or five inches long and about I 1-2 
inches diameter, are freely produced, and the plant in full bloom forms a most beautiful object. The Bottle Brush thrives readily in poor, dry soil and blooms several times a year. There are various shades of pink, crimson, white, 
etc. 

Among Half Hardy Shrubs we have several varieties of Bauhinias of great beauty. Bauhinia alba has large pure white flowers 3 or 4 inches across. Bauhinia purpurea is one of the most showy and handsome of the family; the flowers are marked purple, white, mauve, etc., and 


are produced in great numbers in winter or early spring. 

Chinese Hibiscus and Allamandas are most valuable shrubs in this list, produc¬ 
ing freely all summer quantities of showy and beautiful flowers. Though easily killed down by frost they readily start again in spring and bloom freely in sum¬ 
mer. In fact the Allamanda may be said to be benefited by this frequent pruning as it results in the production of new, 
fresh wood. 

The Dwarf Poinciana should have a prominent place in any lawn planting. Its red and gold flowers are most beautiful, 
and freely produced the greater part of the summer. While not so ready to start after being killed down by cold, is readily grown from seed and commences flower¬ 
ing when quite small. 

Other shrubs of easy growth and that start readily after injury by cold are 
Cestrums, both night and day blooming sorts, producing myriads of small, white flowers that in the case of the night blooming sorts perfume the air for a long distance around. 

Clerodendrons, with flowers of white and deep red; Eranthemum, deep blue flowers; Plumbagos, pink, light blue and white flowers freely produced most of the summer; Hamelia patens, small scarlet flowers; Tabernaemontana or Rose Bay, 
white flowers; Thunbergias, blue and white. 

In Hardy Vines we have Bignonias in variety, flowers of yellow, red, cream, 
purple, etc., all free bloomers; Tecoma capensis, practically hardy, red flowers produced during the greater portion of the year; Wistarias, blue and white; Hon- 


130 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


eysuckles in variety, as also a considerable variety of Jessamines, so called, of which probably the Star or Confederate Jessa¬ 
mine is of the most value. This sort pro¬ 
duces over a period of several weeks great quantities of small white flowers with a charming fragrance. 

In Half Hardy Vines there is a very extensive list, including some varieties of 
Bignonias, notably Bignonia venusta or 
Flame Flower, a most vigorous growing sort which starts quickly after injury by cold and flowers again the following fall. In bloom it is one of the most strik¬ 
ing .objects imaginable, large plants pro¬ 
ducing such numbers of blooms as to give the effect of great sheets of flame. 
We have a plant of this variety that though killed to the ground two years ago bloomed at the eaves of a 35-foot tank house the past winter. 

The Antigonon or Rosa de Montana is also one of the most valuable of vines; 
of an herbaceous character, starting early in spring commences blooming early in the summer and produces in the greatest profusion its rich pink flowers until fall. 

With so abundant a supply of hardy and half hardy trees, shrubs, vines, etc., 
from which to draw for our needs for permanent planting there would seem lit¬ 
tle requirement for annuals, which call for a greatly increased amount of care and attention to attain success. 

And while considering our plans for planting let’s not forget the birds. Flow¬ 
ers and birds are fit companions and both do much to add to the pleasure and con¬ 
tent of home surroundings. Include in your planting one or two wild cherries, 
some elders, lantanas, a few downy myr¬ 


tles, cattley guavas, and other fruit pro¬ 
ducing plants and your bird friends will sing so sweetly your home will be more attractive to your human friends. 

DISCUSSION. 

Discussion after Dr. Nehrling’s paper. 

Mr.-: I move that a vote of thanks 

be extended to Dr. Nehrling for his pa¬ 
per. 

Vote taken standing. Unanimous. 

M ( r. Temple: I would like to ask if that Sacred Bamboo can be secured any¬ 
where. Are any of the dealers in Florida handling that Sacred Bamboo ? 

Dr. Nehrling: I do not know. I think 
I have seen it in some of the older cata¬ 
logues years ago. My specimens came direct from Japan. Do you handle it, 
Mr. Reasoner? 

Mr. Reasoner: No, we do not have it. 

Mr. Mills: We carry it. It is a mighty bad thing to speak up for your own busi¬ 
ness right here, but since the question was asked, I will answer it. That we have is from one of the original plants brought to this country. D. G. Ambler had it, and after the fire Mrs. Ambler gave it to me to plant. We have propagated it, and I 
can say it is one of the best things in 
Florida. In the winter time it is a beau¬ 
tiful red color, and the plant seems to be perfectly healthy. 

Prof. Hume: For those who do not know the gentleman speaking, I would say that it is Mr. C. D. Mills, of Jack¬ 
sonville. I have seen the plant growing in Tallahassee. It seems to be perfectly hardy there, even though the tempera¬ 
ture goes down to fourteen or fifteen de¬ 
grees. 




FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


131 


ORNAMENTALS FOR THE LOWER EAST COAST. 


J. B. Donnelly. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

I have been asked to present a paper on ornamental planting on the lower 
East Coast, but, as I am only acquainted with conditions and plants at Palm Beach and vicinity, I will have to confine my¬ 
self to that locality. 

As you are probably aware, Palm 
Beach is a strip of land lying between 
Lake Worth and the ocean, it varies in width from one-fourth to one mile, and consists of a rocky ridge along the lake front, and a sandy one on the ocean; the depression between is of a swampy na¬ 
ture. It has been filled in and drained in many places and makes fine garden land, but some of it still remains the home of the alligator and turtle. Along the 

lake front are the winter residences of 

* 

wealthy people who come to occupy them every year, and on these grounds around these homes, is where the plants and trees are grown that I will try to describe. 

The cocoanut palm (cocos nucifera) is perhaps the most prominent feature of the landscape. They grow here in large numbers, some of the original planting— 
thirty-five years ago—still remaining, 
beautiful trees fully fifty feet high bear¬ 
ing hundreds of nuts every year. As they are easily propagated, they are large¬ 
ly used as an avenue tree and for wind¬ 
breaks, etc. 


Several varieties of the Date Palm 
(Phoenix) are represented by many fine specimens. A good many set fruit every year which rarely ripens, owing to heavy rains about the ripening time, (August and September.) 

The Royal Palm (Oreodoxa regia) 
grows very well here. Many specimens are fully forty feet high. A few of them bore seed for the first time last year. 
There has been a great number of young plants set out in recent years that are do¬ 
ing well. 

There are not as many varieties of palms planted out here as might be, and 
I have no doubt they would do as well as those that have been planted. We have nice specimens of Areca lutescens and A. rubra, both varieties bearing quan¬ 
tities of seed every year. Latania bor- 
bonica also bears seed, Caryota urens, 
Seaforthia elegans, Pritchardia Pacifica, 
and the California palm, Washingtonia robusta are well represented. 

The socalled Sago Palm (Cycas revolu- 
ta) grows luxuriantly here, some speci¬ 
mens are eight feet high and bear quanti¬ 
ties of seed. 

We have a magnificent specimen of 
Cycas Circinalis, with leaves ten feet long. 

Pandanus utilis grows to a large tree with heavy branches and bears seed every year. P. Veitchii makes large clumps from ten to twelve feet high and holds its variegation well. When planted close it makes a fine hedge or windbreak. 


9 



132 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


A very ornamental plant which grows well here is Ravenala Madagascariensis, It grows about twenty feet high and blooms every year making seed freely. Strelit- 
zia regina is another fine plant that grows to a height of fifteen feet. The variety, 
Augusta bears seed freely, humilis blooms but does not produce seed. Of the Agaves we have several varieties that grow to a large size and send up tall bloom stalks. 
They are used as single plants on the lawn and planted on the dividing line be¬ 
tween lots, as there are no fences. 

Of the Conifers we have Araucaria ex- 
celsa and A. glauca. They make very handsome trees. 

Bamboos, when protected from the east wind do well. We have several varieties, 
many of them fifty feet high. 

Among the tropical fruit and shade trees which are largely planted here may be mentioned Albizzia Lebbek, Poinciana 
Regia, Tamarindus Indica, Cecorpia pal- 
mata, Cupania Sapida, several varieties of Anona, Cicca disticha, Eugenias, Per- 
sea Gratissima, Harpephyllum Caffrum, 
Terminalia Catappa, several varieties of 
Ficus, Casuarina equiseti folia, Grevillea robusta, Achras Sapota, and many oth¬ 
ers. The native Ficus (F. Aurea) which grows here to such a large size is a very fine shade tree. There are several oth¬ 
er native trees that are very desirable, 
such as the Satinwood (Chrysophyllum) 
Sea Grape (Coccoloba uvifera), Mastic, 
etc. 

Of flowering shrubs the Oleander and 
Hibiscus in many varieties are largely planted both as specimen plants, clumps, 
hedges, and windbreaks. Several varie¬ 
ties of Bauhinia, Oestrums, and Cassias, 


Cordia Sebestina, Artobotrys, Galphimia 
Nitida, Hamelia patens, Jacobinias, Ixo- 
ras, Murraya exotica, Lawsonia alba, and many others furnish cut flowers at all times. 

Of vines, the most popular here are 
Bougainvillea Sanderiana, and Bignonia 
Venusta: besides these we have Abrus precatorius, Allamanda Hendersonii, An- 
tigonon leptopus, Quisqualis Indica, 
Beaumontia Grandiflora, several varieties of Jasminum, Ipomoea, and Aristolochia, 
Cryptostegia Grandiflora, Stephanotis floribunda. Thunbergia—two varieties, 
several varieties of Bignonia and Tecoma, 
Stigmaphyllon ciliatum, Petrea Volubu- 
lus, and many others. 

The red flowering Bougainvillea—B. 
lateritis—is a recent favorite. It grows as well, and blooms as freely as B. Glabra, 
and is, I think, a decided improvement in the color of the flowerbracts. 

In ornamental foliage plants our Cro¬ 
tons take the lead. We grow about twen¬ 
ty varieties. They are grown in beds, 
borders, and single specimens. They are cut back every year, and are so easily propagated that every one has a supply of them. Some specimen plants are fifteen feet high and are very handsome. 

Acalyphas—four or five varieties—vie with the Crotons in coloring and effective¬ 
ness in beds, borders and single plants. 
They also have to be cut back, sometimes twice a year. Phyllanthus Nivosa var. 
Rosea picta is used for hedges and bor¬ 
ders. It is very handsome, and much ad¬ 
mired by visitors, Aralia filicifolia, and 
A. Guilfoylei, and several varieties of 
Panax are much used. Several varieties of Furcraeas, aloes, and Euphorbias are 



FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


133 


used as single plants and for outlining boundary lines, and Yuccas are used for the same purpose and for protecting or¬ 
ange groves from predatory visitors. 
They make a good fence and windbreak. 

There are a great many other tropical and sub-tropical trees, shrubs and plants that I have not mentioned that grow here in the open ground without any protec¬ 
tion whatever. 

I have two Orchids, Vanilla planifolia, 
that are growing on the north side of two 
Date Palms for the past six years with¬ 
out any protection; they have bloomed for the past two years, but have not set fruit. 

During the winter months we grow quantities of annuals, such as Salvias, 


Petunias, Marguerite Carnations, Candy tuft, Mignonette, Nasturtiums, etc., etc., 
for cut flowers. Besides these we have good Tea and Hybrid Tea Roses, Easter lilies, etc. I may add that there is very little attempt made at landscape garden¬ 
ing. In some places plants are huddled together in a border without any regard to their future size, or else planted out promiscuously in the open, usually in straight lines with no regard to vista or surroundings. 

The subject of my paper is an interest¬ 
ing one to me. There are so many trees and plants growing here that I have not mentioned, and which if I did, would make this paper much too large, so I will close. 


Theodore L. Mead 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

My paper today will necessarily con¬ 
sist of only a few notes, as since I have been of the fraternity of market-gard¬ 
eners I have found that crops, especially under cloth cover, require all the time there is, including days and nights and holidays and Sundays and leave little time for any side interests. 

My orchids surprised me by their en¬ 
durance of hardship and neglect. I man¬ 
aged to water them with the hose about once a week and fired the greenhouse boiler on the coldest nights, but could do little else. The glass sashes were re¬ 
moved during the summer, leaving the lath shading so that the plants had the benefit of the summer rains. Nearly all 


the terrestrial plants in the greenhouse died from neglect, but at least two-thirds of the orchids survived and g'ave a grat¬ 
ifying display of flowers in their season. 
A few rare hybrids now ornament your president’s desk. 

The new amaryllis varieties, as bred by Dr. Nehrling at Gotha, have proved a great improvement upon the scarlet sorts commonly grown in Florida gar¬ 
dens, and we owe Dr. Nehrling a debt of gratitude for putting these beautiful forms within our reach, as his seedlings are nearly equal to the foreign named varieties, which cost often ten dollars and more for each bulb, when imported from the European fanciers. 

With a little patience anyone may now have a royal bed of these fine varieties 





134 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


at small expense. Two or three bulbs may be purchased, and the pollen trans¬ 
ferred from flower to flower when they bloom. Seedpods full of seeds will be ripe in a few weeks from which hun¬ 
dreds may be grown by the amateur. 

Three years ago I had a single bulb; 

I sowed the seeds it produced in a raisin- 
box of rich soil and gave them only or¬ 
dinary attention till the next summer, 
when I had 200 small bulbs to plant out. 
They have made a well-filled bed about 
4x20 feet and though only half of them flowered this year, the bed was a blaze of bloom, as many as 150 flowers being open at once, many of them of great size and varying in color from nearly white . 
to deep scarlet and crimson. 

My vegetable gardening experience has taught me that Florida soils must have a 


steady artificial water supply to yield sat¬ 
isfactory returns of either flowers or other products. If flowing wells can be had and clay is near the surface, subir¬ 
rigation is all that can be desired, but only a few can have such facilities. Now that good gasoline engines can be had for 
$30 or $40, they are as necessary and no more costly than a good fence is in the cattle and hog country which still com¬ 
prises most of rural Florida. 

Ten minutes time a day and maybe a cent’s worth of gasoline will make almost any Florida desert blossom as the rose, 
beside supplying an abundance of water for household purposes, and this should become as much a matter of course in ev¬ 
ery Florida homie as is a cook-stove or a set of bedroom furniture. 


Tropical Fruits 


SMOOTH CAYENNE PINEAPPLE CULTURE AT 

PUNTA GORDA, FLA. 


J. M. Weeks. 


Mr . President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

Some weeks ago I was requested to write an article on the above subject, and 
I asked the gentleman making the request whether or not he wanted a true history of the fruit as I know it here—the fail¬ 
ures as well as the successes. “Oh,” he remarked, “you need not mention the failures.” The article was not written. 
I believe the stating of actual facts as nearly as we can give them, and the pre¬ 
senting, as nearly as we can, reasons for the successes and the failures in any busi¬ 
ness, to be better eventually for the State and the community, than painting every¬ 
thing “rosecolor,” thus finally creating discontent and disgust in the enthusiastic settler. 

My experience in pineapple growing has been limited to the culture of the 
Smooth Cayenne variety, under sheds, 
near Punta Gorda during the past ten years. 

Almost all the lands in and adjacent to 
Punta Gorda are adapted to the shed- 


grown, fancy, Smooth Cayenne pineapple, 
but some are better than others. For in¬ 
stance, lands lying within one-half mile of Charlotte Harbor are better protected from cold than those farther away. Then some low lands which can be readily drained are better than the higher, lighter, 
more sandy soils, because they seem to contain more humus and the pineapple is a very gross feeder. 

The country about Punta Gorda is nearly level, with a gradual slope from the interior to the shores of the bay, thus giving good drainage where ditched. Its natural growth is pine trees and palmet- 
toes. 

The first step for the prospective pine¬ 
apple grower, after selecting and purchas¬ 
ing his land, is to have it cleared, or 
“grubbed.” This will cost him from 
$30.00 to $50.00 per acre, the price being governed by the amount of trees and pal- 
mettoes on the tract. Then it should be plowed and later harrowed fine. The first plowing will cost $6.00 per acre, and 




136 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


the harrowing from $ 4 - 5 ° t° $ 5 *°° P er day. 

The construction of the shed is next in order. Ten years ago when we could buy the best lumber for $14.00 per thou¬ 
sand feet delivered, we used 1x3 inch slats, generally 16 feet long, for the par¬ 
tial covering, placing the three-inch slats three inches apart, thus making a half cover, and a protection from both heat and cold. These slats were placed north and south so that there would be alter¬ 
nately sunlight and shade over the plants and the fruit, as the sun makes its daily journey from east to west. They were placed on 1x8 inch by 16 ft. stringers, 
which rested on fat pine posts eight feet apart one way by fourteen or sixteen feet the other way. Those sheds then cost about $600.00 per acre. The great advance in lumber, however, necessitates the construction of cheaper sheds, so we now place our posts fourteen by fourteen feet apart, using No. 10 galvanized wire instead of the heavy 1x8 stringers, No. 
14 wire for cross supports and ordinary building, or plaster laths, woven with No. 
16 wire, instead of the 1x3 slats for the cover. This shed can be constructed for about $400.00 to $450.00 per acre. It is about seven feet high, and protects the pineapple from both extremes of heat and cold, and conserves the moisture in dry seasons. This, together with proper fer¬ 
tilization and cultivation, produces pine¬ 
apples so large, so juicy, so luscious, and so tender that one fruit will be sufficient for two meals for a large family and the pulp may, if desired, be separated from the peel and eaten with a silver spoon. 

Next, the beds are made up and the 


plants are set out. There are four kinds of plants, viz., suckers, slips, rattoons, 
and crowns. Of the four, suckers are best and crowns least desirable. I usually set plants eighteen by twenty-four inches apart, thus getting about ten thousand to the acre. Other growers set them at different distances, each to his own lik¬ 
ing. Plants cost from $25.00 to $50.00 
per thousand, according to whether they are or are not culled. As before stated the pineapple is a gross feeder. After hav¬ 
ing been set out the young plants should be fertilized immediately and afterwards at intervals of every six weeks, of course being frequently worked with the “scuf¬ 
fle” hoe. At least $100.00 in fertilizer per acre should be given the plants to bring them to maturity. 

Plants mature their fruit from fifteen to twenty-four months after having been set out, and the same plant, or rather, the plant and suckers thereon, will bear, if properly cared for, several crops. I have plants which were set out more than five years ago and which are still giving me good results. The richer the soil in which the young plants are set, the longer will the fruiting continue. 

The pineapple has many diseases and the fruit many enemies. Thus, wilts (a fungus growth), root-knot, dieback, ants, 
and mealybugs are some of the principal enemies of the plant. It matters not which of these diseases attacks a plant the result is much the same, that is, the roots die and the plant languishes, get¬ 
ting what nourishment it can without roots. Six years ago we used to throw these plants in piles outside the pinery and burn them, to prevent, as we supposed,. 


FLORIDA ,ST ATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


137 


the further spread of disease. Now, we simply pull them up; cut off the dead roots, strip them, put them back in a hole made by a posthole digger, throw a half¬ 
handful of fertilizer among their leaves and let them grow. About 75 per cent, 
of plants so treated do well. We fight the enemies of the fruit with poisons. 

Results after all are the test of success, 
hence, we want to know what are the re- 
suits of all this expenditure, labor, and waiting. If the land and plants be prop¬ 
erly selected, if the plants be carefully and conscientiously fertilized and culti¬ 
vated, and are thrifty, the first crop should be about four hundred crates per acre at an average price of about $2.00 
per crate. After crops will run about three hundred crates per acre. Of all the fancy varieties, the Smooth Cayenne is 


most cultivated for market here, because it is smooth, while all other varieties with which I am acquainted are serrated; be¬ 
cause its flavor is delicious; because its appearance is striking and tempting, and because it is a better shipper than most of the others. He who buys one real good 
Smooth Cayenne will want another. 

I have used the word “failure” in con¬ 
nection with pineapple culture, and will say that any one who> will not give labor, 
fertilizer, and close'attention to the busi¬ 
ness had better not go into 1 it. There have been failures in every section where the shed-grown Smooth Cayenne pineap¬ 
ple has been grown. Perhaps proportion¬ 
ately fewer in Punta Gorda than in some other sections. I believe the soil and con¬ 
ditions about Punta Gorda to be especial¬ 
ly adapted to> the growing of this fruit. 


Miss Florence R. Harden. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

The excellent papers of Mr. Reasoner and Mr. E. V. Blackman, read before this Society last year, on tropical fruits, 
not only gave the names of a great many of the varieties that have been grown in 
Florida, but discussed many points of in¬ 
terest concerning the best known varie¬ 
ties. 

This paper will, I fear, be rather ram¬ 
bling in style, and will merely touch upon a number of fruits and questions about them that will be intended to provoke much discussion. There is no doubt in my mind that tropical fruits should have 


a more important place in this Society than they have ever yet had. tThe limited area in which these fruits will thrive, and the undeveloped condition of that portion of the State, together with the fact that most Americans have not become ac¬ 
quainted with even the existence of such fruits, partly accounts for this lack of in¬ 
terest. I should say lack of general in¬ 
terest for most of the information that I 
can find about tropical fruits has been written by men who either live in Flor¬ 
ida, or have spent much time in studying her resources and problems. I do not know how we are to induce people to take a general interest in the pamphlets, bul- 



138 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


letins and reports that have been written for us. The government has done its part to help the faithful ones to teach us all, but, alas! I do not think they are read as they ought to be. Perhaps, a more serious difficulty is, that the tropical fruits ripen in summer time when such a large per cent, of our educated people are out of the State. 

It has been proven that a great many of the choice fruits may be shipped safely, 
long distances. I have several times had mangoes and avocadoes shipped to me when they had to make a three or four days’ journey and they reached me in good condition and kept more than two weeks in an ordinary refrigerator, a few ripening each day. 

A little of my experience in having a display of tropical fruits at the Michigan 
State Fair at Detroit, may be given here. 
There were more than thirty varieties in the collection. The weather was very hot in the Southern States through which they had to pass and yet the first shipment which was well packed arrived in fairly good condition and the fruits kept so well that I had a creditable display left at the end of ten days. 

The keen interest the people took in these fruits was a constant surprise to me. 
Hundreds had never seen a grapefruit and the citrons, pawpaws, avocados, cer- 
imans, green cocoanuts, sapodillas, mam- 
mee apples, guavas, limes and many oth¬ 
ers aroused the keenest interest and many amusing questions. 

Almost every minute some one would say: Do you eat them ? All these things ? 
This too? Others who had traveled in the tropics were full of intelligent ques¬ 


tions about the country where these won¬ 
derful fruits grew. The taste for most of these fruits is supposed to be acquired, 
but I do not remember a single person who did not relish a fruit that I prepared for tasting. One great trouble is that often they are either under ripe or over ripe when first tried and of course that causes prejudice. 

I can remember when few people in the western states knew the taste of pine¬ 
apple, and the little green things were so sour that it is a wonder they got a hold on the people as soon as they did. I have a great many tropical fruits growing in my orchard and I find that most people like them at first taste, when they are just ripe. 

Something is usually said about man¬ 
goes and avocados, and I would not take up your time with them, but I must say a little. The East Indian mangoes are cer¬ 
tainly delicious, and salable, but, so far, 
they are such small producers for me that 
I think we need to know more about them. 
I have a large budded mulgoba, a beau¬ 
tiful tree, that is eight years old and it had the first blossoms this year and there are two fruits hanging on. Other trees seven years old have also the first bloom this year and only a few fruits. The 
Bennetts have done some better, but not well. They bloomed splendidly, but do not set much fruit. The Gordon did about the same. 

Eight years ago, we secured four doz¬ 
en mulgoba mangoes from Mr. Gale of 
Mangonia—large luscious fruits they were. We planted all the seed as an ex¬ 
periment. The seedling trees are large, 
vigorous and beautiful. They are very 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


139 


different in appearance. This year a num¬ 
ber of them are fruiting, and I am eager for them to ripen. The fruit on three of the trees is a dark rich purple, with green underneath. They look like they will be large—are the shape of the mulgoba, and 
I think they are going to be a month ear¬ 
lier than the budded trees.' Part of the other trees have fruit shaped like No. II, 
some having large fruit and abundant quantity, while others are thin, poor look¬ 
ing fruits and still others are rounder. 
I hope to have a more interesting report of them next year. 

Dr. Gifford has some of the Philippine mangoes that he secured in Mexico that he hopes will do well here. The quality he says is as good as the best East In¬ 
dian varieties, and they are heavy bear¬ 
ers. 

Last year, Mr. Blackman reported that the Department of Agriculture at Wash¬ 
ington had pronounced an avocado, orig¬ 
inated by himself, and named the '‘Black¬ 
man” to be the best avocado yet tested, 
all points considered. 

This year, I have the honor of making a similar report—as a fruit sent from my orchard and named “The Haden,” in hon¬ 
or of Captain Haden, who planted the seed, was pronounced to have more good points than any yet tested. May the hon¬ 
or be shifted each year! 

Unfortunately, I have had to leave the 
State in summer the past seven years, 
and have missed learning many valuable lessons. 

I believe that there are possibilities of preserving, evaporating and otherwise treating these fruits, that would prolong their season. 


One of my neighbors dried some of the fruits of the carissa and said it acted very much like dried apples when soaked in water. 

The Carissa Grandiflora is one of the handsomest of our plants. The large white flowers are both beautiful and fra¬ 
grant and the deep red fruit on the dark green foliage is especially attractive. The first is a good deal like a raspberry in flavor, and makes a nice sauce or jam. 

The tamarind can be dried or put up in sugar or molasses, as the Bahamans do, 
and makes a pleasant drink when added to water, or they are nice used as a con¬ 
serve. I find that almost every one who passes my tree stops to look for a few ripe tamarinds and they are eaten as rap¬ 
idly as they ripen. 

The sapodilla has been neglected, as it is a fine fruit and the tree is very orna¬ 
mental. I find that the fruit makes one of the best sweet pickles I have ever made, 
I am going to try to dry them this year. 

It takes the seedlings a long time to bear, and there is a saying among the 
Bahamans that he who plants a “dilly” 
tree will not live to see it fruit. This may account for its scarcity in the gar¬ 
dens as most people are very fond of the fruit, and the tree grows of itself, after it is started. It grows wild on the keys. 

The sapota blanca is an unusually beau¬ 
tiful tree. Only a few weeks ago I said that I did not esteem the fruit of it highly but recently I have changed my mind. 
My tree is not in a good place and has very little attention, but I believe if it were well treated that we might grow to value it as they do in Mexico, where it is a great favorite. 


140 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


The Surinam! cherry is such a nice fruit—the tree and fruit are both beau¬ 
tiful. I hope that more people will plant them. Many prefer them to strawberries, 
and they are certainly much less trouble to grow. The Barbadoes cherry is said to be even superior to the Surinam cherry. 

No paper on tropical fruits should fail to speak of the pawpaw (Carica papaya). 

It is so delicious and so wholesome. 
The fondness for it grows upon one and it can be prepared in different ways for the table. If you are short of vegetables, 
a green papaw, stewed like squash and seasoned with salt, pepper and butter can not be told from squash. If you want an apple sauce, season it with lemon or 


lime juice and add sugar. When ripe the favorite way is to eat them from the shell like a cantaloupe, but strangers like them better peeled, cut in cubes and sea¬ 
soned with sugar and lime juice. 

The Cocoa plum grows wild on the beaches and when one can get them they make a splendid substitute for the north¬ 
ern May cherry, if lime juice and sugar are added after they are stewed in water. 
The guava is so well known that I have not spoken of it although it is a very in¬ 
teresting fruit to me. Time would fail me, 
were I to try to tell of all the interesting fruits that we have in south Florida, so 
I desist. 

Cocoanut Grove, Fla. 


Irrigation Experiments 


Milo B. Williams. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

During the spring of 1909 a co-opera¬ 
tive arrangement was entered into be¬ 
tween the office of experiment stations, 
U. S. Department of Agriculture, and 
Dr. Charles Drennen, of Orlando, Flor¬ 
ida, for the installation of an experimen¬ 
tal irrigation plant and distribution sys¬ 
tem for the purpose of investigating the practical and economical methods of ap¬ 
plying water to citrus groves in Florida. 

Preliminary surveys were run and tests made during the spring months of 1909, 
the tests being conducted with the pump¬ 
ing plant Dr. Drennen had at that time. 
Water was conveyed through the orchard in open ditches and applied to the sur¬ 
face by means of furrows or in basins, 
and a study made bringing out the follow¬ 
ing general data. 

(1) That the loss of water is exces¬ 
sive when run for a length of time in open supply ditches made in the sandy soil. 

(2) That water can be distributed over the surface in small furrows, pro¬ 
viding the furrows are given proper grades and from 25 to 30 gallons of wa¬ 
ter be supplied to each furrow per min¬ 
ute. 

(3) That the tendency of the dry soil is to present a resistance to the taking 


of water when first applied, which aids greatly in the flooding of small basin areas. 

(4) That the water when applied to the Florida high land soil in furrows does not percolate laterally in the root zone of the citrus tree more than 2 or 3 feet distance from the point of application in five days’ time, but has a tendency to go downward rapidly and be wasted in the deep porous white sand, making it neces¬ 
sary for a close spacing of furrows and a large flow of water to each furrow for a short length of time. 

From this data it was decided to re¬ 
model the pumping plant already on the ground in such a way that it could be used in supplying a distribution system built similar to the concrete construction used so extensively in the irrigation of citrus groves by gravity flow in Southern 
California. 

THE REMODELED PLANT. 

The pumping plant as now installed consists of a 25-horse power Hagen gas¬ 
oline engine, connected by belt to a 5-inch 
Gould centrifugal pump of the one-stage type. The water is drawn from a large lake supply and lifted to an elevation of 
34 feet above the lake water level, where it is delivered into a concrete standpipe 



142 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


which is situated at a controling eleva¬ 
tion in the orchard. 

The suction consists of a 7-inch steel pipe, while the discharge is made up of two 5-inch pipe lines to utilize some of the pipe on hand, left from the old plant. 

The economical capacity of the pump¬ 
ing plant is 44,000 gallons per hour, and the distribution system is designed to han¬ 
dle this amount. 

The general design of the distribution system consists of large water-tight con¬ 
duits, laid below the cultivated surface and following the most prominent ridges and reaching all high points in the or¬ 
chard. At points where it is desired to supply water to furrows or basins small standpipes or hydrants are placed in the underground conduit and the water brought to the surface through this con¬ 
struction. Each hydrant is equipped with a valve which controls the amount of water taken from the underground sup¬ 
ply, while in the sides of the standpipes are small division gates which divide the total head into the individual furrows. 
By means of check valves built into the main lines of the conduits the water can be taken in part or in whole to any por¬ 
tion of the orchard. 

The construction of the distribution system was begun during the spring of 
1910. The first conduit to be tested out was built of concrete according to stand¬ 
ard specification for their making in southern California, which calls for a 
“dry mixture” pipe, or a concrete pipe made from a comparatively dry mixture of sand and Portland cement wetted only to a consistency that will permit imme¬ 
diate removal of the molds, and cured carefully afterwards by applying water 


in the form of spray until the cement will set. Each section of pipe is coated on its inside surface with a mixture of neat ce¬ 
ment paint and the standard design of tongue and groove joint, as used in southern California construction, mold¬ 
ed on each length. Three thousand feet of the above design of pipe was made and laid in the Drennen orchard. 

In testing this amount of pipe under the Drennen grove conditions, the follow¬ 
ing difficulties have been encountered: 
That the same design of joint as used in the California field, where the water flows through the lines by gravity and under low pressure heads, is not practical for the pressure heads necessary to conduct water in the Drennen grove. That the shells of the dry mixture pipe are unde¬ 
sirably porous regardless of the neat ce¬ 
ment paint lining. 

With these data on hand, together with the results of comparative tests which this office has obtained from experiments with “wet mixture” concrete pipe, vitri¬ 
fied sewer pipe, and “dry mixture” pipe during the past winter months, it has been decided to delay the construction of the 
Drennen system and make arrangements to complete it in part with “wet mixture” 
pipe and in part with vitrified sewer pipe, 
which will give us a comparison of the three constructions under the same condi¬ 
tions. 

Molds for the “wet mixture” pipe are now being built, which will turn out pipe 
8 inches in diameter in sections 5 feet in length with a tongue and groove joint. 
A separate mold is being made also that will make a reinforcing concrete collar 


FLORIDA ( STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


143 


to be placed about each joint to overcome the difficulties encountered in the Califor¬ 
nia joint. 

OBJECTS OF THE EXPERIMENTS. 

The Drennen plant is being installed with the following experimental objects in view:, (i) To learn the possibilities of surface application of water in the irri¬ 
gation of citrus groves in Florida; (2) to study the effects, value, and disadvantages of irrigation; (3) to determine the cost of pumping and applying water in irriga¬ 
tion by the surface methods; (4) to gain data as to the quantity of water necessa¬ 
ry for the insurance of citrus groves against drouth, and to open a field of cheap pipe construction that will meet 
Florida requirements. 

The plant when completed therefore, 
will be so constructed that the different methods of surface application may be experimented with, on different plots of the orchard, and a study made of the fea¬ 


sibility of each method. An effort will be made to determine the proper size, 
depth, length, grade, and spacing of fur¬ 
rows to use in obtaining an even distri¬ 
bution of moisture through the root zone and give the least waste of water. The proper amount of water to apply per ir¬ 
rigation, and the length of time between applications, with respect to the amount of rainfall, cultivation, and soil moisture, 
will be investigated in the hope of obtain¬ 
ing data that will be of value to those who are developing water resources or designing irrigation plants. The system will be equipped with measuring devices, 
whereby a continuous record will be kept of the amount of water used, together with the time of application. A standard rain gage is placed in the orchard so that the exact record of. precipitation and its distribution as to time can be had and the total amount of water any one .plat of the orchard receives during a day, a month, or a growing season can be calcu¬ 
lated. 


M. E. Gillette. 


Mr. President , Ladies and Gentlemen: 

I am at a loss to know why I was se¬ 
lected as chairman of the Committee on 
Irrigation, as while I am generally on the water wagon, I know very little about irrigation. Fortunately, however, one of my associates is Mr. Campbell of Jack¬ 
sonville, who knows as much as anyone in the 'State about irrigation, and upon be¬ 
ing notified as having been appointed on this committee, I immediately wrote him 


and asked him to prepare a report on this subject. He replied that this was his busy season and that he was working twenty- 
four hours a day and didn’t have time to attend to it, but I have always found that the busy men are those who do things. 
He told me the other day he didn’t think he could be here, but he came into the room a little while ago and gave me this paper. He said he never read a paper before an audience in his life and said he was too modest and wouldn’t I read it. 



144 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


I don’t know whether he meant that as a reflection on me or not, but I will read you the paper. 

(Reads Mr. Campbell’s paper.) 

Now, Mr. Campbell referred in his pa¬ 
per to a system of irrigation which I dis¬ 
cussed at the last meeting and possibly it may be interesting to some of you to know that since that time I have installed a plant similar to that I described at Day¬ 
tona. Perhaps some of you were not at that meeting, and I will tell you what the plant is like. 

At one time, I had a plant which re¬ 
quired the use of a hose, and I disliked that very much. I found the hose rotted out in about one year, and it took a num¬ 
ber of men to handle it, and altogether it was quite unsatisfactory. While we got water on the trees of course, and while the first cost was not heavy, the cost of putting the water on was heavy, and it was pretty hard work, and for those rea¬ 
sons it was quite a temptation to put off applying the water, hoping from day to day that it would rain and thus obviate the necessity for going to> all the expense and trouble until long after we should have begun to water. To avoid that, I 
thought I would like to have it automatic, 
So Mr. Campbell installed a plant for me at Winter Haven. I now have this sys¬ 
tem covering ten acres, but intend to put it over forty acres. 

The engine used for power is a 50 H. 
P. double cylinder Hagan; the pump is a two-stage Gould’s Centrifugal. The main is six inches. The laterals from this main are 2]/ 2 to ij 4 inches. The main line runs up to this ten acre lot and then the same size main runs right across it, 


dividing it into two five acre tracts. The trees are twenty-four feet apart. The whole tract now is set to nursery and the stand trees are the same size as the nurs¬ 
ery seedlings. I am letting them come right along with the nursery seedlings. 
In putting down the pipe, we put it about eighteen inches under ground. The pipe under the ground is protected with a preparation of asphaltum, and the parts that stand up outside of the ground are galvanized. 

There are six laterals leading from each side of the main. Each lateral takes care of two rows of trees, and where they lead off from the main there is a valve right at the main. Then a pipe is put in opposite and up to within a foot of each seedling or grove tree. Then the pipe goes up at right angles to just above the top of the tree. In other words a pipe is put over each tree. You see, the pipe is absolutely out of the way, and if it were not for the upright pipe over each tree you would not know there was an irrigating plant on the place. 

Now, when we want water, my man goes down and turns on as many of the laterals as the pump will supply. We have a four inch sewer pipe that goes over the valve so as to keep it covered and keep the dirt out. Then he goes on down and starts the pump. We figured that we would run an hour on each one of the six lines on each side of that five acres. We figured that if we start in the evening, by six o’clock in the morning we would have let each line run an hour. 
That would give me an inch and a half of water over the whole ten acres in ten hours. 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


145 


You know how dry it has been. Dur¬ 
ing the dry period I went up there one day. The man ran the engine until 12 :oo o’clock, and I told him to run only a half hour on each section. At midnight, one side of the pump failed to work. I went there the next afternoon and there was not a place on that ten acres where I could kick up the dirt with my foot and find a particle of dry earth. Everything was absolutely soaked. 

Now, you understand this work was all done with one man. While the initial ex¬ 
pense is heavy, the running expense is mighty light. All there is to do is to start the pump going, go up and open and close a few valves, and that is all there is to it. One man goes to work at 5 :oo o’clock in the evening and works until 6 :oo o’clock in the morning, and the whole grove is completely watered. 

Then there is another advantage of having the pipe over the trees. The wa¬ 
ter comes down just like a rain, and wash¬ 
es off the leaves and drips down to the ground. As soon as the tree grows high enough so that the pipe does not reach to the top, I will extend the pipe so that it does. The water coming that way is just as near like a rain as anything can be. If we ever do have whitefly, which we prob¬ 
ably shall have some time, I believe that we can colonize the fungi in those trees and keep the pest very much in check. I 
believe it was at the last meeting where 
Prof. Rolfs said he did not think it would be possible to have whitefly in a grove where you could have moisture enough to propagate fungi successfully. 

As I have said, the first cost is pretty heavy, but I have never found anything 


in this light, porous, sandy soil that we can grow without sprinkling. I tried running the water down furrows, and have never found it to my satisfaction. 

I believe my method is one that will absolutely control the amount of moisture in an orange grove. Now, if we can have the fire pots in the winter months (not that we ever have any cold at Winter 
Haven) and have the water overhead in the summer, it seems to me we have a cinch on growing oranges and will be millionaires in less than no time. 

The spring is a critical time in the life of a crop. We may get the bloom all right, but if we don’t have moisture enough to keep it on the tree, we won’t get many oranges in the fall. Most of them go to the ground. Now, when you have an irrigation system such as the one 
I have installed, where you can have it when you see it is necessary, and don’t need to be afraid of the expense or trouble, you can keep enough bloom on your trees to insure you a crop. 

I would say that the cost of watering a grove, when you once get the plant in¬ 
stalled, will be about $5.00 or $6.00. That includes the man necessary to do the work, the gasoline, the wear and tear on the engine; in other words, that is the to¬ 
tal cost to you. 

Mr. Stevens : What was the cost of in¬ 
stalling per acre? 

Mr. Gillette: It cost me $5,500.00 for the ten acres. Of course, this buys the engine, pump, 600 or 700 feet of six inch main, and then I had to go from my pump house to the lake, which took 500 feet more of the six inch main. It is estimated that the next ten acres will cost about 


146 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


$2,500.00. Of course, the nozzles and sprays are included. They are quite ex¬ 
pensive. You will note Mr. Campbell says in his paper that he has a new nozzle that he thinks is going to work pretty well. 

Mr. -: I understand you to say 

you have 3-4 inch pipe over the trees? 

Mr. Gillette: Yes, sir. That seems to give service. Just as soon as we start the pump and turn those valves on, it looks like a fog. It is a solid mass of spray, and in ten minutes’ time the ground seems to be thoroughly wet, but, of course, 
it takes longer than that to put on water enough to do any good. I don’t really believe that it will take longer than from 
6 :oo o’clock until midnight to water the grove sufficiently, however. 

Mr. -: What is the estimated ca¬ 

pacity of the pump? 


Mr. Gillette: I have forgotten, exact¬ 
ly. I think it was guaranteed 7,500 gal¬ 
lons a minute and actual measurements showed I was getting over 10,000. 

Mr. Campbell: Hold on Mr. Gillette, 
Make that 750 gallons instead of 7,500. 

Mr. Gillette: All right, I guess it is 
750. That shows that some people here know what they are talking about, so far as the engineering proposition is concern¬ 
ed and I don’t pretend to but when it comes to knowing the results I want to obtain and whether or not I am obtaining them, I know pretty well what I am talk¬ 
ing about. 

With my system, it will be possible to water the whole forty acres in two nights, 
and I believe I had rather have a forty- 
acre grove irrigated this way, than 100 
acres without irrigation. 


J. P. Campbell. 


Mr. President , Ladies and Gentlemen : 

In the past I have had occasion to talk irrigation to several of you personally, 
and believe that I have done better by the subject that way than I will addressing you as a body, especially as I have had my time so fully taken up that it was only yesterday at the solicitation of 
Mir. Gillette, chairman of the Committee on Irrigation, that I decided to prepare this article. 

It is not my intention to attempt in this short space to discuss the subject of irri¬ 
gation from a technical standpoint, but will attempt briefly to cover some of the 


points most essential to the uninitiated who contemplate irrigation. 

Several years ago when I first became interested in the subject of irrigation it took hard work to find a farmer or fruit grower who would even take the time to talk about irrigation. The few plants that had been put in up to that time were most¬ 
ly improperly designed and constructed, 
and had not been successful, so the aver¬ 
age grower dismissed the subject as be¬ 
ing impossible or impractical. Now, a very different state of affairs exists and there are very few practical growers who do not realize the desirability, and most of them the actual necessity for irrigation 





FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


147 


on almost all crops that are grown in the 
State. There are, however, a great many of us who have very vague ideas regard¬ 
ing the subject of irrigation, and it is for the benefit of such that I will attempt to explain very briefly something about the different systems used in the different lo¬ 
calities of the State, and under the vary¬ 
ing local conditions. 

Have a letter here, which is similar to a great many I receive, reading as fol¬ 
lows : 

“I am' interested in the subject of irri¬ 
gation, and would like for you to give me full information and tell me how much it would cost to put in five acres.” 

This is all the information given. He does not state what system of irrigation he is interested in, the source of water supply, the character of soil, the crops to be grown, or a great deal of other infor¬ 
mation absolutely necessary in order to give him the information he requests. 

If this party, who for convenience we will call Mr. Jones, had been located in the Sanford celery district where flowing wells are easily obtained, and where cel¬ 
ery, lettuce and other similar crops are grown, and where on account of the hard sub-soil sub-irrigation is successfully used, he would probably never have writ¬ 
ten for information, but would have fol¬ 
lowed the example of his successful neigh¬ 
bors, put in a tiling system and used sub¬ 
irrigation, although I know of very prom¬ 
inent growers having perfect systems of sub-irrigation, who after seeing the very decidedly superior results obtained by their neighbors with a sprinkling system, 
have decided to use it themselves, retain¬ 
ing tiling system for drainage only. 


If he is located at Hastings where sim¬ 
ilar conditions prevail, but where potatoes are the principal crop, he can plant on beds about 20 feet across with water fur¬ 
rows in between them, and by filling these furrows with water, it would in a short time spread out on the hard sub-soil and permeate entire land between. 

If Mr. Jones is in the strawberry dis¬ 
trict of Bradford county, the flowing wells could not be obtained, but the water supply in the driven wells would come up near enough to the surface to be taken up with a suction pump and distributed into head ditches running along the high¬ 
est point of the tract to be irrigated, and as the strawberries and other crops in this section are usually planted on individual ridges instead of on broad lands, he can run the water down between alternate rows leaving the intervening middles dry for convenience in cultivation and pick¬ 
ing, the operation to be reversed next time water is applied. For this kind of irriga¬ 
tion it takes very little power, as the wa¬ 
ter only had to be raised to the surface, 
and a very cheap style of pump can be used. If the well is large enough and wa¬ 
ter supply sufficient so that it will not lower beyond 18 ft. from surface when pump is in operation, a 4 H. P. engine will take care of a 4 inch centrifugal pump with an approximate capacity of 
300 gallons per minute, which would un¬ 
der ordinary conditions be ample for as much as ten acres. 

On smaller acreages in this territory, 
the low pressure type of Rotary pump can also be used to advantage, if the wells are free from grit. If, however, there is any sand in the supply this type of pump 


-* A 


148 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


should not be used, as the excessive wear on the cams would ruin the pump in a short time. 

If Mr. Jones was located at Center Hill or some other point in the State where he has good heavy soil, and does not wish to go to the expense of putting in sprink¬ 
lers close enough together to cover, he will probably use the over head perforat¬ 
ed pipe system, where the lateral pipes are placed about 50 ft. apart and supported on posts about 6 ft. high. These lateral pipes are tapped about 3 ft. apart, and usually small brass tubes are inserted so that the orifices will not become irregular or stop up with rust. Each lateral is sup¬ 
plied with a union so that it can be rotated, 
and a handle so that the lines of sprinkler tubes can be turned from one side to the other gradually, and in this way the en¬ 
tire surface covered. This system of ir¬ 
rigation is very popular and is probably more extensively used by vegetable growers than any other system. 

We will next suppose that our party is located at Eustis or some of the other points where similar conditions exist, and wishes to irrigate an orange grove. His land has considerable fall but is extremely sandy, and as he considers irrigation somewhat as an experiment, he does not care to put much money into it. He gets his water supply from a clear lake, and as the total natural and friction head is not too great he can use a single stage Cen¬ 
trifugal pump and a gasoline engine for forcing water up along the high side of his grove. He should use a large size pipe so that the large volume of water will not be decreased by unnecessary pipe friction. On the pipe along the high side 


of grove he should have large hydrants or plugs not over 100 ft. apart, and follow¬ 
ing out the original idea of cheapness he can convey the water discharged through these hydrants through a cheap canvas hose to the intervening rows between the hydrant openings. When this is all done and the pumping plant is started, he will probably find that on account of the ex¬ 
treme looseness of the soil, even the large head of water he has will not flow down between the rows very satisfactorily, and to overcome this he can use a machine made especially for that purpose which opens up a very shallow furrow and packs it at the same time, not only in the center but on the sides as well. He can open up three or four of these furrows between each row of trees, and when he now turns on his water he will find that it will glide down these packed furrows very freely, and by letting it run to the very lowest point first and gradually damming up, letting it spread out until the top is reached, you will get a very even distribu¬ 
tion of water and quite satisfactory re¬ 
sults. Of course, where the soil is not so loose and sandy this opening up and pack¬ 
ing furrows is not necessary. If Prof. 
Williams is present he will probably tell you about the successful experiment he has made at Orlando, using a similar sys¬ 
tem, and Mr. Mote will probably be will¬ 
ing to tell the Society of a plant he has recently installed on his magnificent grove in Lake county, where this system is used in a very highly satisfactory manner. 

Again, we will suppose that practically the same conditions as first mentioned above exist, except that party has quite a large grove that on account of irregu- 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


149 


larities of the soil it is impossible to use the first mentioned system to advantage, 
and that while he wishes to hold expense down as low as possible he is at the same time a believer in the sprinkling system of irrigation, also that the natural and fric¬ 
tion heads are so great that he cannot use a single stage Centrifugal pump. In this case we would recommend that he lay his main pipe throughout center of tract to be irrigated and have lateral pipes proper¬ 
ly proportioned, gradually increasing from ends up to main, laid on each side of main in every third or in every fifth middle, depending, of course, on the dis¬ 
tance apart trees are planted. Then along these lateral pipes between every third or fifth row have hydrant stands for connect¬ 
ing hose. He would use as many pieces of hose as were necessary to take up the capacity of his pump and of sufficient length to reach all intervening squares be¬ 
tween hydrants, the distribution to be through sprinkler stands placed on ends of these hose. If water supply is obtain¬ 
ed from lake or from a well where the supply comes close to the surface and is free from- grit, a high pressure Rotary pump can be used to advantage. If, how¬ 
ever, there should be considerable sedi¬ 
ment in the water it would be best to use a multiple stage Centrifugal pump that would not be affected by the grit, and to use strainers on the sprinklers. In fact, 
on account of their extreme simplicity and durability the different makes of 
Two-Stage pumps are rapidly taking the place of many of the more expensive types. Their efficiency may not be quite as great to start with, but their deteriora¬ 
tion is not so great. This method of ir¬ 


rigation is now used quite extensively, 
and there are many members of this asso¬ 
ciation using it. 

Finally, we will suppose that our seeker after irrigation information is located on the comparatively flat but very porous soils found in the lake regions of Polk and Orange counties and other portions of the State where flooding and most other systems would be out of the ques¬ 
tion. We will also suppose that he wishes the best system that money will buy, one that will wet his lands perfectly in a short time, and at the same time gently so that the soil will not be washed or packed, 
and which can be operated at a minimum expense. Under these conditions no mat¬ 
ter what crops he may wish to grow, he will select an engine of large power and a pump of large capacity. He will use very large main pipes to supply a system of laterals placed 25 to 35 ft. apart of such proportions as are necessary to sup¬ 
ply and give a uniform pressure to sprink¬ 
lers placed on stands 5 to 10 ft. high and 
2 5 to 35 apart along these laterals. At intersection of each of these laterals with main he will have a cut-off valve so that he can turn on as many of the lines of sprinklers as his pump will supply at a sufficient pressure so that the water from the sprinklers will over lap between. All the pipe system except sprinkler stands, 
will, of course, be buried deep enough to be out of the way of cultivation. If properly proportioned and installed this will be an ideal Florida irrigating plant. 

The only draw back to the extensive use of this last mentioned system has been the large initial expense of installation as the Rival type of sprinklers usually 





150 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


used heretofore have been of such large capacity that it required a system of very large and expensive piping to properly supply them. I understand, however, 
that there are now sprinkler nozzles on the market that give a much less quantity and at the same time a very even and sat¬ 
isfactory distribution. If this is so the cost of piping can be considerably re¬ 
duced, and with its most perfect distribu¬ 
tion and minimum cost of operation and maintaining it, this system will eventually come into very general use. At the last 


meeting of this Society Mr. Gillette told about his ideas of a plant along these lines which he has since had installed, and I 
hope that we will hear from him regard¬ 
ing it. 

In the limited time at my disposal I 
have only touched a few of the many points to be considered, and I would like to say more regarding the different types of engines, pumps and sprinklers, the different conditions of water supply, etc., 
but time forbids and I will close. 


Deciduous Fruits of Florida 


F. P. Henderson. 


Mr . President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

Deciduous fruits do not receive the at¬ 
tention in Florida that they should re¬ 
ceive. 

I do not know that I can add anything new on this subject, but I want to speak of a few of our most common fruits. 

Permit me to say first of all, that I be¬ 
lieve if we gave the same study, care, 
and fertilizer to our deciduous fruits that we do to citrus fruits, they would be just as profitable. 

I do not think this would be true of the orange belt alone, but taking the State as a whole. I realize the fact that where the deciduous fruits do best, citrus fruits cannot be grown profitably, and where citrus fruits do best, most deciduous fruits could not be grown profitably. 
There are a few sections in central Flor¬ 
ida where both do equally well. 

First, I shall speak of peaches. The peach is one of the four or five deciduous fruits that can be grown in Florida in a commercial way with a good margin of profit to the grower. 

The peach is without doubt, the most popular fruit in America today. 

There is a greater acreage planted in peaches than any other fruit. 

The peach is grown over a greater area and is adapted to a greater range of cli¬ 
mate than any other fruit. 


The peach brings quicker returns on the investment than any other fruit. 

And I believe, when we learn how to properly grow and market the peach it will pay larger dividends than any other fruit. I realize the fact that the peach business, in Florida, has almost been wiped out during the last eight or ten years by the San Jose Scale, but with the present improved and scientific way of destroying this scale with fungi we need hesitate no longer to plant peach trees. 

With my last two years’ experience I 
do not believe it a very difficult or costly task to almost entirely obviate loss from this pest by the latest method of distrib¬ 
uting this fungi by spraying the spores on the trees as soon as they become in¬ 
fested with the scale. 

But my business here is not to deal with insects and diseases, but with fruits. 
There are a few varieties of Florida peaches, such as Jewell, Waldo, Florida 
Gem, Imperial, Marguerite and a few others that are unsurpassed in flavor by any peach in the world, if properly grown. These varieties are becoming very well known in a few of the eastern markets and are preferred to any other peach. 

But aside from the market value of the peach, almost every land owner, not only in Florida, but in most of the states 



152 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


in the United States can have all the peaches they want the whole year round, 
by the right selection of varieties for each locality and by canning fruit while in season. But I must drop the peach here and mention some other fruits of com¬ 
mercial importance. Figs, kaki or Jap¬ 
anese persimmons, and plums are gain¬ 
ing in favor and importance as commer¬ 
cial fruits. The demand for canned and preserved figs is away beyond the supply and is rapidly growing. There are sev¬ 
eral varieties that succeed well in Florida, 
but perhaps the celestial or sugar fig is 
Lie best allround fig we have. 

There is no more delicious fruit grown in Florida than a well grown good ripe 
Japanese persimmon and as soon as the fruit loving public learn how and when 
Lo eat it, it will become a very profitable t.op to grow. 

By a proper selection of varieties we can have for the table or to ship, Japan¬ 
ese persimmons six months in the year. 

Figs and Japanese persimmons have a great advantage over most other fruits as they are almost entirely exempt from disease and insect enemies. Japanese persimmon trees have proved to be rath¬ 
er short lived in most places in the State, 
but in my opinion it is due almost entirely to want of proper care and fertilization. 
A Japanese persimmon needs as much fertilizer as an orange and as good care otherwise in order to bear the immense crops they bear every year and keep health. 

There are three or four varieties of plums which will pay well to grow for market and which should be found in every home garden. The Terrell, Howe, 
and Excelsior are about the best and 


most reliable varieties. They are a cross between the Kelsey and the native varie¬ 
ties. 

There are many other deciduous fruits that can be grown in Florida with more or less success, such as pears, quinces, ap¬ 
ples, grape, etc., but I will only name a few varieties of each that succeed here. 

Do not waste time and money plant¬ 
ing any of the northern pears in Flor¬ 
ida, LeConte, Keifer, Smith, Cincincis and Garber do well almost anywhere in 
Florida. 

The Japanese Quince does well almost anywhere in the State. Some other va¬ 
rieties succeed in some localities. 

I believe a few varieties of apples could be grown here for home use by us¬ 
ing southern varieties such as Jennings, 
Florida, Red Astrachan and Horse Apple and by grafting on our native wild haw root. In 1902 I grafted an apple on a wild haw root dug out of the woods and in 
1906 it bore about two dozen apples. 
That fall San Jose Scale killed it. Last spring I grafted a Red Astrachan apple into a haw root. At this time it has three apples on it. 

I shall experiment further in this line. 

As fine grapes can be grown here as anywhere in the United States. Of course all the Bullace or Scuppernong va¬ 
rieties do well almost any where in Flor¬ 
ida. Of bunch grapes the White Niag¬ 
ara, Moore’s Early, Delaware, Agawam and a few others do well here. 

The reason of our failure to have plen¬ 
ty of all these fruits is not the soil or cli¬ 
mate of Florida, but a failure to use va¬ 
rieties adapted to our soil and climate together with ignorance of how to 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


153 


plant and care for trees after planted. I 
will close this paper by mentioning a few essentials of success. 

First never buy trees grown outside of 
Florida. We have several nurserymen who make it their business to find out and grow varieties especially adapted to Flor¬ 
ida. They are as intelligent and as hon¬ 
est as any nurserymen in the world and will give you free of charge any infor¬ 
mation you may desire. If you are not well posted yourself or know a local agent who is, the best way to get* trees that will succeed, in your special locality, 
is to write to some of our nurserymen in the State and tell them to send you the varieties you need of any fruit you may want. Second: Always cut back lateral roots to one to three inches long according to size of tree, and cut back the top to one to three feet according to the size of the tree before planting. Third, 
keep clean either by cultivation or mulch¬ 
ing. Fourth, fertilize heavily using com¬ 
mercial fertilizer always except on pe¬ 
can trees, use about two pounds the first year—i pound in February and one pound in June for each tree. Five pounds the second year and from five to fifteen pounds every year thereafter. I regret 


that the subject of this paper covers so much ground that it cannot be specific enough to be of as much value to the grower as it should be. 

I regret also that so little attention has been given deciduous fruits by the State 
Horticultural Society, not only this year, 
but for the past several years. The So¬ 
ciety has become largely a citrus grow¬ 
er’s association rather than a Horticul¬ 
tural Society. I do not blame the citrus growers for this, only so far as the fram¬ 
ers of the program for the annual meet¬ 
ings may be dominated by citrus grow¬ 
ers, and thus give preference to the cit¬ 
rus industry and thus neglect to develop the vegetable and deciduous fruit inter¬ 
ests which, important as the citrus indus¬ 
try is, are together more important to the proper and well balanced progress of the horticultural interests of the State. I 
suggest, therefore, that these interests be given at least the place their importance deserves on our next program and that one man be added to the committee on deciduous fruits and one to the commit¬ 
tee on vegetables whose business it shall be to give the society the best possible statistics on these branches of horticul¬ 
ture at our next annual meeting. 



Florida Citrus Exchange 


R. P. Burton 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

After the grower has devoted several years of hard work and close study of de¬ 
tails in bringing his grove to a productive age, the most vital question in his mind is,—how to put his product on the mar¬ 
ket for the most money. After years and years of varied experiences with gradual¬ 
ly diminishing profits in Florida, men of activity bestirred themselves, not only in their own interest, but the general inter¬ 
est, to devise means by which this ques¬ 
tion could be solved. 

About two years ago the venerable Dr. 
Inman visited California, seeking light upon this subject. It was my pleasure to meet him upon that occasion and give him some suggestions relative to the market¬ 
ing of the California output through co¬ 
operation. Returning to Florida, Dr. In¬ 
man interested a large number who visited 
California about a year ago, when it was again my pleasure to conduct them to va¬ 
rious packing houses and show them the details not only of the workings of these, 
but of the associations, the sub-exchanges and the central exchange. Returning to 
Florida, the gentlemen composing this committee of investigation called a con¬ 
vention of growers together, when it was decided to organize the Florida Citrus 
Exchange. 


The theory of organization is, that the grower manages his own affairs, by first coming together in various communities organizing associations, these associations electing representatives who organize sub-exchanges, who in turn elect their representatives who constitute the Board of Directors of the central organization. 
Having no associations in Florida, it was necessary to begin at the top, organizing the central exchange, which, through the energy and financial assistance of the pa¬ 
triotic growers who performed this work, 
the growers were brought together in their associations and sub-exchanges. 

The central exchange is divided into its various departments: The sales depart¬ 
ment with a sales manager, through which the entire country is divided into districts and a salesman or district man¬ 
ager placed in charge of each one. These district managers, where there is a suffi¬ 
cient volume of business to justify, are employed on a salary basis; where there is not sufficient business to justify this, 
brokers are used; these district managers and brokers have been selected with the greatest care, the sales manager going in¬ 
to each district, canvassing the situation, 
seeking out suitable men to represent the exchange and arranging terms with them, 
subject to the approval of the Board of 





FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


155 


Directors of the Florida Citrus Exchange. 
By reason of his wide acquaintance throughout the country, the sales man¬ 
ager was successful in securing the ser¬ 
vices of the best talent in nearly all cases. 
Where he was unable to secure the best talent, it has been necessary from time to time to make changes. The sales are made through auction where distributing centers are sufficiently large to justify this, the exchange’s own representative conducting all sales through an auction company. The auction points at present are Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Bal¬ 
timore, Buffalo, Pittsburg, Cleveland, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Cincinnati, and New 
Orleans; all other markets are private sale markets in which sales are made f. 
o. b. shipping point, or on a delivered ba¬ 
sis. Experience has demonstrated that the most effective distribution is through delivered sales. The fruit must be ta¬ 
ken to the wholesale dealers and the busi¬ 
ness made attractive to them by eliminat¬ 
ing as far as possible, all speculative fea¬ 
tures. The exchange adopted this course by which it has been enabled to go into new territory where dealers had ceased to use Florida oranges, but during the past season, have again taken up the handling of our fruit. In some instances our district managers have taken cars into their ter¬ 
ritory, divided them up between several dealers, thereby inducing them to push 
Florida oranges when they would not buy a car load. 

California marketed during the season of 1898-99 about 14,000,000 boxes of citrus fruits. There was no part of this country which they did not penetrate, 
going into all Canadian points, Europe, 


Honolulu and Australia. Sixty per cent of that output was marketed through the 
California Fruity Growers Exchange, 
which has served as a model for the Flor¬ 
ida Citrus Exchange in its formation and methods of marketing. This California organization is now putting its oranges and lemons into Florida, but not a box of 
Florida fruit goes into California, owing to their stringent laws against the impor¬ 
tation of insects, and fruits that carry them. 

In conducting the business of the Flor¬ 
ida Citrus Exchange, it is necessarily done by telegraph. In the course of the day’s work the incoming telegrams are put into a bulletin and sent to every as¬ 
sociation manager daily. All telegrams sent from the central office are put into a bulletin and both the incoming and out¬ 
going telegrams are sent to the sub-ex¬ 
change manager. All shipments are giv¬ 
en a serial number and all telegrams re¬ 
lating to these shipments are by the se¬ 
rial number, and when they go into the bulletin, the abbreviation of the sub-ex¬ 
change making the shipment is placed be¬ 
fore the number. As these telegrams are received or sent from the central office, 
they are entered upon a card manifest covering the shipment. Each sub-ex¬ 
change manager is supposed to go through the bulletins locating any of his ship¬ 
ments that are mentioned in these tele¬ 
grams and the telegrams entered upon his cards. Each association manager is supposed to go through the incoming tel¬ 
egrams, a copy of which he receives in the bulletin, and enter upon his cards any telegrams referring to shipments made by his Association. In this way, any as- 


156 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


sociation or sub-exchange manager, or the central office can take any one of these cards covering any given shipment, and give to the owner of the fruit covered by same, all information relative to that shipment, at a moment’s notice. If the association and sub-exchange managers keep up with the bulletins from day to day they see the market conditions re¬ 
flected therein and are in position to form their own conclusions as to the advisabil¬ 
ity of forcing shipments or otherwise. 
Every grower affiliated with an associa¬ 
tion or a sub-exchange is at liberty to go into the office, peruse these telegrams from day to day and keep himself posted. 
This system will, in the end when the growers have learned its merit, educate the growers themselves up to a point of keeping closely in touch with the market conditions everywhere and give them a clearer insight into their own business than they have ever had. 

The cashier’s department receives and disburses all funds of the central ex¬ 
change under order of the Board of Di¬ 
rectors. After a car of fruit has been sold through the sales department, it passes to the cashier’s department and no further account is taken of the transac¬ 
tion by the sales department, unless some inquiry is made by interested persons. All financial matters of either the central ex¬ 
change, or the various districts through¬ 
out the country, pass through the cash¬ 
ier’s department and are submitted by the cashier at the regular weekly meeting of the Board of Directors for their consid¬ 
eration and action. This department also has charge of the supplies for the central office, and through co-operation with the 


general northern agent, supplies for the district managers. It will, therefore, be seen that a very efficient accountant is necessary as the cashier. 

The traffic and claim department is the third, and not the least important one of the central organization. All matters of transportation rates, etc., are referred to the manager of this department. When account sales are received they are placed in a jacket with the card manifest cover¬ 
ing the shipment, the inspection report made by the inspector in the district where the car is disposed of, the original bill of lading, and all correspondence relative to that particular car. The claim manager goes through each of these jackets, scru¬ 
tinizing them closely for overcharges, 
shortages, evidences of neglect on the part of the transportation company in handling the shipment, and if any legiti¬ 
mate basis for a claim appears, he imme¬ 
diately prepares a claim) and files it with the initial transportation company. These claims are followed up from time to time if prompt settlement is not made. As an evidence of the efficiency of this depart¬ 
ment, since the opening of the season, the claim manager has filed 2394 claims, ag¬ 
gregating $69,647.59 and has collected 
1214 claims, aggregating $11,477.86, and has withdrawn as uncollectable, 10 claims, 
aggregating $187.81. I think it will be conceded that this is a wonderful show¬ 
ing for so short a period’s work. The manager of the transportation and claim department of the Florida Citrus Ex¬ 
change is one of the most experienced men in the country, having been connect¬ 
ed with the claim department as one of its adjustors of one of the largest trans- 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


157 


portation companies in this country, for six years. His experience as a railroad man covers a great many years prior to his connection with that claim department. 
He is well up on transportation matters, 
as well as handling claims with transpor¬ 
tation companies. His policy has been to file claims only which had merit, there¬ 
by commanding the confidence of the transportation companies in his honesty of purpose, which has already been es¬ 
tablished. Present indications are that this department alone will collect enough from claims against transportation com¬ 
panies to pay more than one third of the entire running expenses of the Florida 
Citrus Exchange covering all of its de¬ 
partments. It is reasonably safe to say that without this department a very small percentage of these claims would have been collected and the money paid to the growers to whom it belongs. 

The exchange has a general or business manager, whose duties are multitudinous. 
All matters pertaining to the business be¬ 
tween the sub-exchanges and the central exchange come under his supervision. 
Also, the relations of the associations to the sub-exchange are often brought to his department for advice and adjustment. 
Matters of general interest to the organ¬ 
ization are taken up by him with the va¬ 
rious heads of the departments for con¬ 
sideration and final disposition. 

Aside from the heads of the depart¬ 
ments in the central office we have a gen¬ 
eral northern agent whose duties are to supervise all districts, to go in time of trouble to any district and look into mat¬ 
ters that may arise, ascertain whether or not the district managers are performing 


their duties properly, seeking out the weak points in the organization on the other end of the line, finding new men to fill places that are not properly filled, scru¬ 
tinizing all correspondence that may be sent to him from the central office and from the district managers, and finding the weak spots and strengthening them. 
It has happened during the past season that we have had to send the general northern agent from city to city where we had reason to believe correct reports were not being made of shipments to those districts. In every case where this has occurred, he has found that the re¬ 
ports that were made to this office were in accordance with the facts. 

The entire business of the Florida Cit¬ 
rus Exchange is conducted under the su¬ 
pervision of its Board of Directors which meets weekly in its office at Tampa, for the purpose of considering all matters that may be presented by the different heads of the departments and the general man¬ 
ager. 

It will be noted that having provided ourselves with a selling force in the field and a competent northern manager to keep tab on the salesmen, we have equipped ourselves with machinery for the proper distribution and sale of our fruits, which insures success. We have reason to believe from such reports as we have from points throughout the country, that our sales department is of the very best. It has been stated by those who are in position to know, that the or¬ 
ganization in this direction is five to six years ahead of the organization among the growers themselves. The weakest point in the organization, apparently, is 


158 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


in the local associations. It will require several seasons for the growers to learn the details of the management of their own affairs and learn that it is their bus¬ 
iness and that they must pay close atten¬ 
tion to details in preparing their fruit for market, which is done through the asso¬ 
ciation packing houses. 

Florida has been increasing her output from year to year. Beginning with less than a quarter of a million boxes of citrus fruits in 1895 with a market for several times this quantity, there was no difficulty in disposing of the output at home at sat¬ 
isfactory prices to dealers who came here for them. While that was in process, 
California was increasing her output and systematically exploiting every market that could be reached with her fruit. She did not wait for the dealers to go into her packing houses for her fruit, but took it to the side tracks and made it to their interest to handle California oranges to the exclusion of all others. By this means, California was successful in so distributing her crop as to give her grow¬ 
ers satisfactory prices, with increasing crops. Florida, on the other hand, con¬ 
tented herself with depending upon deal¬ 
ers who would come here to buy the fruit, or speculators on the ground who would buy and sell to other dealers. Of the latter, there were various characters. 
As a general proposition, the home specu¬ 
lator began shipping oranges early, before they were ready for market; in many in¬ 
stances assuring the dealers to whom they were selling that the fruit was mature and ready for market. This method of han¬ 
dling the business had the effect of re¬ 
stricting the consumption of Florida or¬ 


anges, as one purchase was sufficient to satisfy consumers that Florida oranges were not palatable. They merely served to fill in the time between the last ship¬ 
ment of California Valencia lates and the early shipment of California navels, and as soon as they could get the latter, they had no further use for Floridas. This has gradually driven the Florida oranges to a few large centers, chiefly along the 
Atlantic Seaboard. 

The effort of the exchange .has been to discourage the shipment of immature oranges and grapefruit in order that con¬ 
sumers may be brought to appreciate the superior quality and flavor of mature 
Florida oranges, which will insure largely increased consumption, without which the growing of this luscious fruit in Florida will surely be disastrous to those produc¬ 
ing it. In order to attain this end, the growers themselves must be brought to realize the actual conditions as they ex¬ 
ist. This can never be accomplished ex¬ 
cept through concerted action on their part, as exemplified by the workings of the Florida Citrus Exchange. 

Discussion after Mr. Burton’s paper: 

Mr. Hart: The interest of the men outside of the exchange should be men¬ 
tioned tonight‘in connection with the ex¬ 
change. I often wonder what the condi¬ 
tions would have been if it had not been for the exchange this year. We hear of the high prices outside of the exchange and the low prices gotten by the exchange. 
It seems to me that if we had not had the exchange the conditions would have been very different. The difference in the commission men alone has paid for the exchange several times. The way they 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


159 


commenced the season was to give low prices, and they gave us to understand conditions would not allow high prices. 
The commission men have been doing their very best to make a good record this year, and they have made a record they would not have made if it had not been for the exchange. Whatever the exchange has done in the way of prices, 
even if -it should turn out that they have not done as well as the people outside, 
certainly the exchange has done a good thing for the shippers of the exchange through stimulating the efforts of the commission men. 

Mr. Temple: You heard in the course of Mr. Burton's remarks a statement of a fact that has come before this body pre¬ 
viously at this meeting; that is, the laws of California that prevent practically the possibility of shipping into that state a disease or insect that might gain a hold. 
They carry it to such an extent that you cannot ship a kumquat into California without going through all kinds of pro¬ 
cedure. 

I was there for three years and wanted to have a grapefruit that was fit to eat, 
and had a box shipped to me from Flor¬ 
ida. The first box didn’t show up, and kept on not showing up, and I finally got a letter from some inspector saying that if I would come down and pay the fumi¬ 
gation fees on that box of fruit, which amounted to $3.00, he would give me what was left of it. He said it was af¬ 
fected with a good many different kinds of scale—more than we ever heard of in 
Florida. I told him to go and eat that grapefruit himself. 


Now, I wish you would join in with the legislative committee and formulate a resolution in some way, and call on the 
State Legislature to pass laws similar to those now in California. Mr. Burton says California is sending oranges and lemons into this State. Their lemons are good, but they have some weird diseases out there that we don’t want to get. We have troubles enough of our own without running the risk of importing any. 

They are so exacting with us that it is time we ourselves should grow suspicious. 
You know what the old farmer’s advice is. “When you swap horses, examine the other fellow’s horse where he examines yours, and you will find the blemish.” 

Prof. Hume: I am very certain that this society is willing to join right in with them on this line. I am certain the so¬ 
ciety is willing to give it carte blanche along that very line. 

Mr. Burton: Let me tell you some of the experiences along the Pacific Coast in that connection. As Mr. Temple states, 
you can hardly carry a man there from 
Florida unless he goes through a course of fumigation. 

When the Florida delegation of grow¬ 
ers was in California last year, one of the 
Boards of Trade gave them some kind of a “blowout” and one of the Florida mem¬ 
bers presented them with a box of Florida 
Valencias for the occasion. They were brought into the board room and passed around. One of the most critical of the 
Board members came to me and said 
“How many more of those oranges are there?” I told him I didn’t know. He said “If they don’t eat them all, burn up 



160 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


what is left; don’t let them get out of this room.” 

Washington produces large quantities of deciduous fruits, and they have laws as stringent as California. We have more than once had oranges inspected and fu¬ 
migated at heavy loss. The inspectors are very critical and it is not uncommon to hear of whole shipments being fumi¬ 
gated, and when you fumigate a car of oranges or lemons, somebody is going to lose money. 

We shipped a car of lemons to Spo¬ 
kane which was sold at $ 4-75 f* °- b. The inspector examined it and pronounced it infected with San Jose scale. I wired him the car was not infected. He wired back that they would fumigate the ship¬ 
ment, when they would allow it to enter. 


I told him we would divert the car from the State. He wired back that the ship¬ 
ment was infected and it was his duty to fumigate it right then and there. I took the matter up with the State horticul¬ 
turist, who went to Spokane and inspect¬ 
ed it himself and said he was certain it was red scale instead of San Jose Scale, 
and it would have to be fumigated. Now, 
the red scale would not do an apple or a peach tree any harm, even if the ship¬ 
ment had been infected with that scale. 
That just shows you, however, of how much importance they consider this point, 
which you in Florida do not consider at all. There is not a law in Florida when it comes to protecting your citrus trees against disease. 


Report of Officers 


— - ■ —J 

% 

REPORT OF AMERICAN POMOLOGICAL MEETING 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

Although the programme calls for “Re¬ 
port of American Pomological Meeting,” 
it is not my purpose to go into details o>f the very interesting and well attended meeting, held at St. Catherines, Ontario, 
Canada, September 14-16, 1909, but 

rather to call your attention to the out¬ 
come of that meeting, as far as decision on the place for the next one was con¬ 
cerned. 

There were present at the meeting fourteen members from Florida, includ¬ 
ing the president, secretary, treasurer and one member of the executive com¬ 
mittee of the Florida State Horticultural 
Society; and we deemed that we had sufficient official representation to war¬ 
rant us in inviting the American Pomo¬ 
logical Society to hold its next conven¬ 
tion in this state. Such an invitation was duly presented by President Hume, and seconded by all of the officers of our society present, and the American Po¬ 
mological Society took the matter under advisement. As is customary with that society, the final decision as to place of meeting was left to its executive com¬ 
mittee. 

In March of this year, Professor John 
Craig, Secretary of the American Po¬ 


mological Society, met with the Exec¬ 
utive Committee of the Florida State 
Horticultural Society in Jacksonville, 
and informed us that our invitation had been accepted, and it was decided that the 
American Pomological Society would hold its next session in Florida in the latter part of January, 1911, and that the place of meeting should be left to the Executive Committee of the Flor¬ 
ida State Horticultural Society. 

Except as being held late in January, 
the exact date at which the meeting should be held has not been fixed, and this, perhaps, had better be left to the 
Executive Committee of this society, de¬ 
pendent somewhat upon the dates that will suit our visitors best. I have, there¬ 
fore, to announce that the meeting of the 
American Pomological Society will be held in such place in Florida as this so¬ 
ciety may select, some time in January, 
1911. Not only will the American Po¬ 
mological Society meet with us, but the 
Executive Committee of the Florida 
State Horticultural Society deems it proper that this society should sanction the extending of special invitations to other southern horticultural societies, to meet with us at that lime, and, with this end in view, I wish to submit the follow¬ 
ing: 




162 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Resolved: That the Secretary of this 
Society be authorized to issue invitations to the State Horticultural Societies of 
Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, 
Georgia, North Carolina, South Caroli¬ 
na, Virginia, Kentucky and Tennessee, 
and to the Horticultural Societies of 
Cuba and Porto Rico to meet with us at the time of the next meeting of the 
American Pomological Society. 

Now, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to relate to you a bit of history: Our Flor¬ 
ida State Horticultural Society was or¬ 
ganized at Ocala, April io, 1888, a lit¬ 
tle over 22 years ago . Our charter members numbered 18. The very first work done by this society, after its or¬ 
ganization and election of officers, was preparation to receive and entertain the 
American Pomological Society, which was to meet in this State in the follow¬ 
ing February, 1889. In addition to the 
American Pomological Society, the Geor¬ 
gia State Horticultural Society was in¬ 
vited to meet with us. The three soci¬ 
eties met at Ocala on Feb. 20, 1889, in the large building of the Semi-Tropical 
Exposition, where was on exhibit one of the finest displays of citrus and other fruits that has ever been made in the 
State. In welcoming the visiting socie¬ 
ties, our president, Dudley W. Adams, 
said, in part: 

“During a somewhat busy life it has been my good fortune to perform many very pleasant duties, but among them all none ever gave me more pleasure than now, in behalf of the infant State Hor¬ 
ticultural Society of Florida, to receive as our guests that full grown giant, the 
American Pomological Society. 


“To be thus honored by the presence of the foremost pomological society of the world would seem to fill to the brim our cup of satisfaction, but when, as to¬ 
day, we can also take by the hand that stalwart organization, the State Horti¬ 
cultural Society of our big sister, 
Georgia, then, truly, our cup runneth over. 

“With the reverence due from youth to age, with the respect due from the stu¬ 
dent to his teacher, with the affection due from the child to his parents, we bid you welcome to our State, our city, our homes, our hearts/’ 

Since that time President Adams, and most of the other seventeen charter mem¬ 
bers, have gone to their long reward, 
but, to a certain extent, history repeats itself, and we are now to have the pleasure of welcoming again to our State the foremost Pomological Society of the 
Western Hemisphere—'which means the foremost in the world. It is a great pleasure to me to announce their coming, 
and it now remains for this society to take such active measures as shall insure to our honored guests the hospitality that is due them Io receive—and us to give. 

This society, the city that may be se¬ 
lected, and the State of Florida, should unite in tendering them a welcome that will be a royal one. Remember that the 
American Pomological Society represents in its membership, not only each of the 
United States of America, but Canada, 
Cuba, Manitoba, Australia, Japan, New 
Mexico, Hawaii and other foreign coun¬ 
ties. At the time of their previous meet¬ 
ing in Florida, the railroads of the State had their representatives in Ocala, to ar- 




FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


163 


range in person for a ten day’s excur¬ 
sion, wherever our visitors wished to go, 
throughout the length and breadth of 
Florida, and they were taken to Homos- 
sassa, Citra, Tampa, Orlando, Sanford, 
Indian River, Mount Dora and many other sections. Their estimate of our magnificent fruit exhibit is shown by the fact that the committee on awards gave silver medals (Wilder) to Lake County 
Shippers’ Union, Marion, Sumter and 
Lee Counties, Rev. Lyman Phelps, E. H. 
Hart and Dudley W. Adams. Bronze medals were awarded to Citrus, Polk and 
Volusia Counties and to O. P. Rooks and 
E. S. Hubbard. I mention these facts to impress upon you the recognized im¬ 
portant position this society occupies, and as an incentive for us to do our best to 


equal or surpass the honors extended the 
American Pomological Society in this 
State twenty one years ago, as well as those extended them in the various other 
States, in which they have met during the past half century. As nothing worth while is ever acomplished without or¬ 
ganized effort, I sincerely hope that this society will take it in hand, in a vigorous 
'manner, with the result that at the close of the American Pomological Society’s meeting with us next January in Florida, 
the general verdict of that society will be, “the best ever.” 

(Since the above report was read the time and place for the American Pomo¬ 
logical Society meeting has been named as Jan. 31st and Feb. 1st and 2nd at 
Tampa. —Secretary. 


MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTE 


A meeting of the Executive Commit¬ 
tee was held in the Secretary’s office on 
February 24, 1910, those present being 
Prof. P. H. Rolfs, Messrs. Geo. L. Ta¬ 
ber, E. S. Hubbard and E. O. Painter. 

On motion it was decided that the 23d annual meeting of the society would be held in Orlando on May 17th, 18th, 19th and 20th. 

On motion of Mr. Taber it was re¬ 
solved that the president take up the mat¬ 
ter of the society’s financial shortage, 
either individually or through a commit¬ 
tee, as he may deem best. 


The following contributions were made towards the shortage: 


G. L. Taber.$25.00 

E. O. Painter. 25.00 

P. H. Rolfs. 10.00 

E. S. Hubbard. 10.00 


For the programme it was suggested that Mr. Milo B. Williams, of the De¬ 
partment of Agriculture, be requested to make a demonstration of Surface or 
Furrow Irrigation at Dr. Drennan’s place, during the meeting. Prof. W. W. 
Yothers, of Orlando, was mentioned for an article on the Whitefly. 


11 










164 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


It was moved by Mr. Taber that here¬ 
after all libraries pay membership fees. 

It was moved that the secretary secure transportation and hotel rates. 

Moved by Mr. Taber that the secre¬ 
tary be authorized to employ a stenog¬ 
rapher. Adjourned. 


A meeting of the Executive Commit¬ 
tee of the Florida State Horticultural 
Society was held in the office of the sec¬ 
retary on Friday, March 25th, those present being Profs. Rolfs and Hume, 
Messrs. Taber, Hubbard, Painter and 
Prof. Craig, of the American Pomolog- 
ical Society. 

It was moved and seconded that the time of the meeting of the American Po- 
mological Society be left to Prof. Craig and his executive committee. 

Moved and seconded that an invita¬ 
tion be extended to all horticultural soci¬ 
eties in the South to participate in the joint meeting of the Florida State Hor¬ 
ticultural Society and the American Po¬ 
mological, Society, the states named be¬ 
ing North and South Carolina, Georgia, 
Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and 
Texas, also Cuba. 

The question of entertaining the vis¬ 
iting delegates was discussed, and it was thought possible that trains could be chartered to visit different parts of the 
State. 

It was decided that a display of the fruits and nuts of all Southern States be encouraged. Prof. Craig stated that 
Wilder medals would be given, and that he would furnish the society with the particulars. 


It was moved by Mr. Taber that 
Prof. Rolfs and Mr. F. O. Painter be in¬ 
structed to solicit invitations for enter¬ 
tainment. 

After a thorough discussion of ways and means for entertaining the Ameri¬ 
can Pomological Society, and other so¬ 
cieties, the Executive Committee ad¬ 
journed to await further information from Prof. Craig and his associates. 


The Executive Committee of the 
Florida State Horticultural Society met in the office of the Secretary June 6, 
1910. 

Present: Messrs. Rolfs, Hubbard, Ta¬ 
ber, Hume and Painter. 

Letters were received and read from 
Mr. Gillett and Mr. Craig—and filed. 

Moved by Mr. Taber that the open¬ 
ing of the American Pomological Soci¬ 
ety meeting be on Tuesday evening, Jan¬ 
uary 31 st, and that the length of the pro¬ 
gramme be left with the American Pomo¬ 
logical Society. Carried. 

Moved by Mr. Hubbard that the sec¬ 
retary correspond with Secretary Craig in regard to list of Wilder medals and other prizes that will be offered by the 
American Pomological Society, and to secure any other information on the awarding of prizes that will enable our growers to understand just what they can compete for. Carried. 

On motion the secretary was instruct¬ 
ed to correspond with Mr. Gillett and get information on the following: 

Hotel Rates .—A definite statement of what the rates will actually be; the num¬ 
ber at the different hotels that can be ac- 






FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


165 


commodated, and how many the Tampa 
Bay Hotel* will accommodate. It is es¬ 
sential that the hotel rates to members be fixed, so that there will be no trouble or misunderatanding when settlement is made. 

Railroad Rates .—To get rates from all points in the United States, Canada and Cuba. * 

Entertainment .—What will it consist of and what days of the week it will be given. This information is wanted so that it can be included in the programme. 

Local Committees .—A local commit¬ 
tee should be appointed to look after hall for meeting, hall for exhibits, facilities for showing exhibits and to receive, place and care for exhibits. 

Prizes .—See if he can get the railroads to offer a prize of $1000.00 more or less, 
for special exhibits. Also to see if county commissioners will offer prizes for local sections. 

The Executive Committee hereby gives 
Mr. Gillett authority to do anything and 


everything that will add to the interest and attractiveness of the meeting of the 
American Pomological Society next Jan¬ 
uary. 

Moved by Mr. Painter that Prof. 
Hume correspond with the National Nut 
Growers’ Association with a view of get¬ 
ting them to make an exhibit at Tampa during the American Pomological Soci¬ 
ety meeting. 

Moved by Mr. Painter that Prof. 
Rolfs be a committee to correspond with the County Fair Association to get them to make an exhibit at Tampa. 

Moved by Mr. Hubbard that 1000 
copies of the proceedings of the Florida 
State Horticultural Society be printed in the usual form and style. Carried. 

Moved that the president take up the matter of standing committees and ap¬ 
point same. 

Adjourned to meet at call of chairman. 

E. O. Painter, 

Secretary. 


166 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

At the Daytona meeting your honor¬ 
able body elected Professor Hume, Mr. 
Taber, Air. Hart and your Secretary del¬ 
egates to the American Pomological So¬ 
ciety, which convened at St. Catharines last September. All four were present at the meeting. The results of the meeting you have in Mr. Taber’s report. 

The same committee was also requested to visit Washington and take up with the 
Department the desirability of securing some trained person to go abroad and try to find some natural enemy to the White- 
fly. Mr. Hart was the only one of the committee who could go to Washington, 
and his report will enlighten you as to what he learned. 

The matter was also taken up with our 
Senator Fletcher, and a bill was intro¬ 
duced appropriating $10,000 for white- 
fly investigation abroad, but was subse¬ 
quently reduced because Prof. Howard reported to the committee that $5,000 
would be sufficient, as he could send Prof. 
Woglum, who would only want his ex¬ 
penses. The orange growers have been dis¬ 
appointed at this, for if the first sum had been left, one or two whitefly experts like 
Dr. E. W. Berger or Dr. Back could have made an investigation that would have more promise, on account of their long-continued touch with the whitefly problems here. 


Your secretary and Mr. Gillett, of the 
Citrus Exchange, undertook to raise some funds for the expense of the white¬ 
fly investigation, but were not very suc¬ 
cessful. The following amounts were received: 


W. S. Hart..$25.00 

John T. Pirie. 25.00 

B. F. Chilton. 25.00 

M. S. Sams. 10.00 

G. M. Wakelin. 10.00 

John H. Sams. 10.00 

H. J. Wilmshurst. 5.00 

F. H. Boye. 2.50 

A. L. Ingerson. 1.00 

Robert Taylor. 1.00 


$114.50 

As this amount was too small to do any thing with, I have held the checks, 
and await the society’s instructions as to what to do with them. 

All of you know that our expenses have been running a little behind each year, until the deficit piled up to over 
$600.00. In my first circular letter to the members, I stated the case, and the re¬ 
sponse has been very liberal. Up to this tim)e I have received on this Deficiency 
Fund the following: 


G. L. Taber. .$50.00 

E. O. Painter. 25.00 

P. H. Rolfs. 10.00 

E. S. Hubbard. 10.00 

L. A. Wilson. 15.00 

Chas Sellmer. 3.00 

H. G. Stouder. 1.00 

B. F. Tillinghast. 5.00 

M. Fugazzi & Company. 2.00 

Chase & Company. 19.00 

J. P. Felt. 5.00 

J. T. Chapman. 1.00 

E. M. Condit. 1.00 



























FLORIDA ;STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


167 


W. W. Wright. i.oo 

W. J. Lewis. I.oo 

Fred Nordman. i.oo 

A. E. Campbell. i.oo 

H. H. Tussey. i.oo 

L. F. Dommerick. 5.00 

A. H. Brown. 5.00 

Chas Montgomery. 1.00 

Mrs. W. E. Cadman. 6.00 

B. F. Chilton,Ronnoc Grove. 20.00 

R. E. Rose. 5.00 

Mrs. R. E. Rose. 5.00 

F. G. Sampson.12.50 

Mrs. F. G. Sampson. 12.50 

E. S. Burleigh. 5.00 

A. J. Grant.j 5.00 

E. K. Harris.20.00 

W. R. Moore. 1.00 

L. B. Knox. 5.00 

Esperanza Fruit Co. 5.00 

Chas Bemenderfer. 2.00 

J. B. Herman. 1.00 

C. A. Robinson. 1.00 

William Allen.. 10.00 

Prof. H. A. Gossard. 1.00 

G. M. Wakelin. 10.00 

Dr. J. F. Corrigan. 1.00 

R. A. Palmer. 1.00 

Wetumpka Fruit Co. 5.00 

Ellis G. Blake. 3.00 

Walter R. Moses. 4.00 

Herman Merrel. 2.00 

Dr. H. K. Grisham. 1.00 

W. J. Ellsworth. 5.00 

C. H. Thompson. 5.00 

Henry S. Pennock. 3.00 

John Kendig. 5.00 

U. A. Denison. 1.00 

S. F. Rou. 5.00 

E. E. Cannon. 5.00 

A. L. Long. 1.00 

George Duchardt. 1.00 

C. Marot Townsend. 5.00 

H. B. Stevens. 8.00 

Irving Keck. 1.00 

J. Q. Adams. 1.00 

J. F. Farley. 1.00 

A. M. Henry. 2.00 

L. B. Skinner. 10.00 

Harry Player. 1.00 

Geo. L. Stanley. 1.00 

Chas G. Kresse. 1.00 

J. P. Mace. 5.00 

H. C. Birley. 9.00 

M. Dickinson. 5.00 

James A. Bear. 1.00 

F. W. Inman. 3.00 

H. Harold Hume. 10.00 

W. S. Hart. 50.00 

Model Land Co. 50.00 


Abe Simon. 2.00 

F. L. Wills. 5.00 

B. F. Holland. 1.50 

J. C. Greener. 1.00 

L. T. Dade.50 

Mrs. Emma J. Hildrup. 2.00 

J. B. Conrad. 4.00 

B. F. Watts. 2.00 

W. F. Colby. 1.00 

W. C. Bryan. 1.00 

J. B. Donnelly. ,... 2.00 

C. D. Mills. 5.00 

G. W. Adams. 5.00 

Chas Pike. 1.00 

W. C. Temple. 25.00 

Mrs. W. C. Temple. 25.00 

M. Zimmerman. 5.00 


$590.06 

This is a remarkably good showing, 
and illustrates how generous and how quick to respond to a call for help the members of the Horticultural Society are. 

After the close of our last meeting a good many new names came in, and throughout the year I have had frequent calls for the Report. The following is my report of cash receipts and disburse¬ 
ments : 

RECEIPTS. 


Reports for 1909.$157.00 

Reports for 1908. 3.00 

Donation from Mr. John Kendig. 2.00 

Donation from Mrs. Cadliff. 1.1.0 

Donation from Mr. C. M. Griffin. 5.00 

Life Membership, W. J. Krome. 10.00 

Life Membership, H. Nehrling. 10.00 

Life Membership, Mrs. N. M. G. Prange.. 10.00 

Life Membership, Mr. H. K. Miller. 10.00 

Life Membership, Peter Marine. 10.00 


$218.00 

1910 Members up to date of meeting".- . 221.00 

$439-00 

EXPENDITURES. 

Kennedy-Brown Advertising Co., printing.$ 3.50 


Dixie Seal & Stamp Co., seal. 4.25 

Joseph Richardson, Postal cards. 4.00 

Express on cards. 1.15 

Telegrams for cards. 1.10 
































































































168 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Telegram to Prof. Stubenrauch.50 

Telegram to Prof. Rolfs.25 

Postage and telegrams for entire year, May 
1909 to April 30, 1910 (exclusive of 

amounts given above). 45.07 

Postage from May 1, 1910 to May 16, 1910, 

inclusive. 1.64 

Secretary’s salary.100.00 


$161.46 

RECAPITULATION. 

RECEIPTS. 

Donation fund.$590.00 

Last year’s account. 218.00 

This year’s members up to. 

date of meeting. 221.00 — $929.00 


EXPENSES. 

As per report.$161.46 

Check paid to treasurer. 717-25 

Cash paid to treasurer. 50.29— $929.00 

It is hardly necessary for me to tell you that the meeting of the Pomological So¬ 
ciety with us next year means that every member must be up and doing between now and the time of the meeting. We must keep up Florida’s reputation for en¬ 
tertainment, and give the visitors no cause for regrets. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

E. O. Painter, Sec’y. 

Florida State Horticultural Society. 


ANNUAL REPORT OF THE TREASURER OF THE FLORIDA 

HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY 


DR. 

1909 

May 18 To balance in treasury.$ 74.46 

July 7 To S. W. Green’s membership fee 1.00 

1910 

April 15 To Wm. Allen contribution_ 10.00 

May 19 To Secretary Painter.767.54 


CR. 

1909 

May 20 By telegrams.$ 1.08 

June 21 By Hall Printing Co. 27.25 

June 21 By E. O. Painter, stenographer’s 

fee. ; ...43-50 

June 21 By E. O. Painter Printing Co.... 17.25 
Dec. 11 By E. O. Painter Printing Co. ..540.75 

Dec. 11 By Miss Lillian Hamlin. 12.06 

1910 

April 22 By Sec. Painter, Allen donation.. 10.00 

May 19 Balance in treasury.201.11 


$ 853.00 


$ 853.00 


























Necrology 


DR. JOHN MILTON HAWKS 


Died at his winter home in Hawks 
Park, Florida, on April 2nd, 1910, at the ripe age of 83 years and was laid to rest in the cemetary there which he himself laid out many years ago in the settlement bearing his name and of which he was the founder. Dr. Hawks was born on a farm in Bradford, New Hampshire, No¬ 
vember 2nd, 1826, and was one of a fam¬ 
ily of five children of whom two sisters survive him. At the age of 16 he com¬ 
menced teaching school and remained at this, in various parts of the country, for several years while continuing his own studies. 

Later he returned to New Hampshire and studied medicine and graduated from a medical college in Vermont. 

He then settled in Manchester, N. H,. 
where he built up a good practice in con¬ 
nection with a lucrative drug business. 

Here in 1854 he met and married Miss 
Esther Willard and with her took a long honeymoon trip to St. Louis, down the 
Mississippi to New Orleans, across coun¬ 
try to Florida and then back home. 

No children were born to them. 

At the outbreak of the Civil War he and his wife volunteered their assistance to the Freedman’s Aid Society of New 
York and were sent to Hilton Head and 
Edisto Island, South Carolina. Here he was instrumental in forming the first col¬ 


ored regiment to enlist under the stars and stripes and became its surgeon. 

The deeds of this regiment have been memorialized by its colonel, Thomas 
Wentworth Higginson, in a work enti¬ 
tled “Army Life in a Black Regiment.” 

Dr. Hawks and wife followed the for¬ 
tunes of war until its close, the command being under General Saxton. 

For a time the Doctor was collector of customs at Pensacola, Fla. He at this time traveled extensively throughout the 
State and about 1872 published the Flor¬ 
ida Gazeteer devoted to the interests of the State. 

About this time he purchased a large track of land just south of New Smyrna and has since added others to his holdings there. 

Mrs. Hawks also studied medicine and built up a large and successful practice in 
Lynn, Mass. For the past forty years^ 
Dr. J. M. Hawks has spent most of his winters in Florida and his summers with his wife, sisters and friends in New Eng¬ 
land. He was very fond of his family and friends and was a most agreeable and entertaining companion. 

His manners were quaintly sweet and courtly and he commanded the entire re¬ 
spect of all who knew him. 

Geo. L. Taber, 

W. S. Hart. 

Committee on Necrology* 








Pecan Growers’ Association 




The pecan inlustry has grown to such an extent that those inter¬ 
ested have formed a Pecan Growers Association of Florida and 
Georgia. As many of the members of the Florida Horticultural 
Society are interested in pecan culture it was deemed wise to ask the pecan growers to meet with the Horticulturists. The invitation presented by Prof. Hume was accepted and a place on the pro¬ 
gramme given for pecan papers and discussion. The following is the proceedings of the Pecan Growers Association:— Secretary. 


Observations on Pecan Culture 


H. K. Miller 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

Only a few decades ago there existed vast area of native pecan groves in the bottom lands of the south-west, and even today this area is considerable, though the greater part of it has been cleared in order that the lands might be used for producing cotton. When these magnifi¬ 
cent trees were thus ruthlessly destroyed, 
no adequate market existed for their pro¬ 
ducts ; but times have changed, and to¬ 
day, the nuts from the trees which re¬ 
main, yield an income far in excess of that which can be derived from the cotton grown on a like acreage. 

For a quarter of a century a few indi¬ 
viduals, recognizing the growing impor¬ 
tance of nuts for food and the constant diminution of the sources of supply of pecans, have attempted to establish pecan growing under cultural conditions, upon a commercial basis, in various sections of the south. It is a matter of common knowledge that in a large measure their efforts proved futile so long as seedling trees were used. It is true that a few seedling groves, under most favorable conditions, have proved remunerative, 
but in most cases, after years of waiting, 
adequate returns were not realized. In the main, this is due to the marked indi¬ 
viduality of seedlings; many prove infe¬ 
rior, some grow very slowly, others re¬ 
quire -years to reach the fruiting age. 


some prove barren; and still others prove an easy prey to natural enemies. The in¬ 
troduction of grafted sorts has, to a great degree, eliminated these difficulties, and in recent years renewed interest has been manifested and much capital and energy are now being applied to the establish¬ 
ment of pecan orcharding on a sound and profitable basis. 

The comparatively short period which has been devoted to growing pecans un¬ 
der cultural methods, coupled with the rel¬ 
atively long time required for trees to come into full bearing, necessarily ren¬ 
ders our knowledge of this branch of hor¬ 
ticulture incomplete; in fact, meagre. The observation of a few trees and orchards, 
the application of theory, and in a large measure hope constitute the foundation for the faith that has led to the establish¬ 
ment of most of the pecan orchards in the south; rather than any actual com¬ 
mercial plantings which have demonstrat¬ 
ed a successful outcome. This has vir¬ 
tually been true of all new horticultural projects and it is only through experience that we master such enterprises. 

Within very recent years much light has been thrown upon the subject; new obstacles have arisen to be obviated, new evidence is at hand for renewing our hopes; real progress has been made in a gratifying degree; today we are enabled to set an orchard with far more assurance of success than was the case five years 



174 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


ago. Who has not heard some old wise¬ 
acre remark as he pityingly watched an enthusiast planting pecan trees; “He’ll never live long enough to see them fruit!’’ 
Thousands of trees set less than seven years ago have put a quietus on this old knocker, and there is scarcely a communi¬ 
ty where pecan planting has been in prog¬ 
ress seven years in which he has not been discredited. There was reason in his re¬ 
marks so long as seedlings were planted, 
as few of these fruit under fifteen years of age, besides there are many such trees twice as old which have yet to show their first crop of nuts. To have asserted that an eight year old tree produced two bush¬ 
els of pecans in one season, would have relegated the claimant to a life member¬ 
ship in the Annanias Club, at so recent a date, as four years ago. The process of grafting alone induces early fruitage, but when scions are selected from choice trees having a tendency to prolificness and ear¬ 
ly fruitage, these characteristics are em¬ 
phasized in the resulting trees, thus mak¬ 
ing it certain that such trees will, un¬ 
der favorable conditions, fruit early in life, and abundantly. 

It is conceded that there are yet many problems to be solved. This is also true of the peach-grower, the apple-grower, 
the citrus-grower, and others; else there would be little occasion for the annual meetings of various horticultural organ¬ 
izations. For a time it was supposed the pecan growers were especially favored in having to deal with a tree free from ene¬ 
mies and diseases of all kinds; it being only necessary to set the trees and return for the harvest. A more intimate ac¬ 
quaintance with such troubles as borers, 


web-worms, case-bearers, bud-worms, 
winter-killing, scab, rosette have taken away the complacent feeling of immunity, 
and undoubtedly troubles that we know not of will require our respect in the fu¬ 
ture. Fortunately our troubles of this nature are not nearly so formidable as those which confront apple, peach or or¬ 
ange growers, and so long as these insist on supplying the world with peaches, ap¬ 
ples and oranges in spite of difficulties, let the pecan growers take courage. Pecan culture has reached its present status largely through the efforts of the National 
Nut Growers’ Association, our parent or¬ 
ganization. The efforts and progress of this association will doubtless be dwelt upon in a paper at this session. We are safe in assuming that the essentials of successful pecan culture are sufficiently clear to warrant the present activity in this new field of endeavor. Still there is enough diversity of opinion regarding many phases of pecan growing to demand our serious consideration along with the unsolved problems. 

I can but touch on a few lines of ac¬ 
tion with slight suggestions that should be taken up for our benefit. 

The one of greatest importance is to determine what varieties are adapted to a given soil, locality, climate. Real infor¬ 
mation in this particular is quite limited, 
and only in a general way is it known that certain kinds have been apparently successful in a given locality. We do know that varieties which fail at one place succeed at another. Some varieties even do better than in the place where they originated. Because of these facts er¬ 
roneous estimates have been made of va- 


FLORIDA .STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


175 


rieties, being either praised or condemned on insufficient evidence. Even that old reprobate—Rome or Columbian has done well in a few instances. It seems that this question must be thrashed out in the south with the pecan in much the same fashion as it was with the walnut in the west, and indeed as has been the case with most fruits everywhere. Such a process is slow and costly but will even¬ 
tually succeed. It is only within the last few years that varietal trees have fruited in any considerable localities but a com¬ 
pilation of results will in a few years add much to our store of information. It is just here that our association can be of great service in collecting information. 

The Nut Growers’ Association could engage in no more beneficial undertaking than securing the establishing of a com¬ 
prehensive plan of experimentation with leading varieties of pecans in many local¬ 
ities within the pecan belt. To insure uni¬ 
formity of treatment, this had best be un¬ 
der National control and I think we should use every effort to induce the De¬ 
partment of Agriculture to take the mat¬ 
ter under consideration. Much time could be gained by securing as far as possible groves already planted and by top-work¬ 
ing to varieties to be tested. From a theoretical view it has been thought va¬ 
rieties which remain dormant late in spring would do well in colder sections but we have instances of some of the very early starters doing well in rather north¬ 
ern sections, while slow starters have fre¬ 
quently been winter-killed in Fla. 

It is certain that few trees are old enough to serve as definite examples of success or failure, that is we have as yet few criterions. 


The question of fertilizing still offers opportunity for investigation, though the general principles are pretty well worked out. I am convinced that it makes a dif¬ 
ference as to the sources from which the plant food elements are derived. The pecan in some respects behaves like the pineapple and it is my obser¬ 
vation that rosette may be induced by improper fertilization of the pecan just as spike is induced when we use the wrong materials on pineapples. 
Two other matters which give opportuni¬ 
ty for research are bud-variation and stock-influence. It is well known that grafted trees of the same variety under similar conditions will show appreciable differences. This may be due to bud-va¬ 
riation, which undoubtedly gives rise to some variation but on the whole I believe we underestimate the influence of the stock upon which we graft trees. 

Such marked differences as we note in seedlings could hardly help imparting characteristics to the scion and this may account for some of our vexations, like winter-killing, delayed fruitage, shyness, 
susceptibility to scab, etc., manifesting it¬ 
self in individual trees. Can we not by selection secure types of stock that will render the trees amenable to our require¬ 
ments? The selection of varieties almost serve our purposes, cannot the deficiencies be made up from a combined selection of stock and scion? To my mind here lies a fruitful field for scientific research. 

A question which thus far has given us little concern will soon demand our atten¬ 
tion, that is the marketing of our crops. 
It is our good fortune to have this subject presented at this session. It has been re¬ 
peatedly stated that there was no possi- 


176 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


bility of over-production and that the de mand could never be fully met. Perhaps this is true, but it appears to me that if the trees already planted and those in prospect of being planted in the next few years will yield half as well as is expected of them, the present market will have to be greatly enlarged and new markets created. With the entire world awaiting conquest there are vast possibilities for marketing; however, this is one of the problems awaiting our efforts. 

We can all remember the time when a few cars of pomelos would supply the en¬ 
tire market of the U. S., but a million boxes does not now appease our craving for this luscious fruit. When the general public is educated to the merits of the im¬ 
proved pecans, who can estimate what demands will be made upon the south for this incomparable nut? 

The control of insects and diseases both known and unknown will require our best efforts and ever keep us on the alert. Any tiller of the soil must engage in a battle royal. Nature seems pitted against him, 
yet nature supplies the weapons for its own undoing; the master mind must or¬ 
der the battle and in proportion as it is wisely exercised will success crown the effort. 

It has indeed required an abundance of nerve and faith to establish pecan or¬ 
chards. The long period of waiting, un¬ 
looked for difficulties and unexpected items of cost, have dampened the ardor of many who began with enthusiasm. 
Some have fallen by the wayside, giving up the fight, others have pressed onward 


and are now coming into a deserved and just reward. 

Ample evidence has been furnished the past two years to warrant the belief that orchards properly tended will come into satisfactory bearing at eight years from planting. New life has been put into the enterprise, and today this branch of horti¬ 
culture is attracting unusual attention. 

It is a noteworthy fact that many of the commercial orchard companies have taken hold of their properties with in¬ 
creased energy and are giving much bet¬ 
ter care to their trees than formerly. It appears that ample capital is available for extensive operations and we may confi¬ 
dently hope to see a vast source of wealth added to this southern section, al¬ 
ready so abundantly blessed with natural resources. The present need is efficient help, young men properly equipped and willing to push forward the work. 

It is safe to predict that pecan culture will prove similar to other forms of en¬ 
terprise. It will not give something for nothing but we will get out of it in pro¬ 
portion as we invest capital, energy and brains. 

Nature has been lavish in her gifts to man, but we of the south are face to face with an opportunity granted to few of earth’s peoples. I believe we are waking to the facts and that the day is not distant when pecan culture will be one of the chief industries of the south, and in lieu of the wild groves that are gone forever with their inferior nuts will arise, as by magic, innumerable orchards showering down their annual contribution to human¬ 
ities’ needs. 


H ow Shall We Market Pecans 


H, Harold Hume. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

In reference to the subject which I am . 
to discuss for you, I may say that until within a few days I was not aware that 
I should be called on, in connection with this part of the programme. Owing to the number of other things demanding attention I have had but little time to make preparation. 

For a number of years, I have been looking into the subject of pecan growing. 
My investigations began some ten or twelve years ago, and in this time, I have seen the quantity price of the common wild pecan nuts, small in size and of va¬ 
rious shapes, increase from three or four cents per pound to fifteen or sixteen cents per pound. Although much attention has been given to orchard planting, there has been no material increase in the amount of the product just referred to as the la¬ 
ter plantings have been made with budded and grafted trees of improved varieties. 
The increase in price has been brought about either by manipulation or by in¬ 
creased demand or both. While manipula¬ 
tion has had something to do with it, yet there is no reason to doubt that our in¬ 
crease in population, and the use of pe¬ 
can kernels in new ways and in vastly larger amounts, have been largely respon¬ 
sible for this .increase in price. 


Texas supplies the bulk of the wild product and it is often a fact that the man who owns the trees and their crop is not the one who harvests the crop, sells the product and pockets the proceeds. Since the sellers are so often irresponsible and have no vital interest in the crop, it will frequently be noted that there is a wide difference between the first price and the price to the retailer. It has been noted for instance, that at times when the whole¬ 
sale price is about fourteen cents per pound, the collector is getting four cents. 
There is a difference of ten cents in the transaction between the passing of the product out of the hands of him who first had it and its receipt by the man who wholesales it to the final distributor. This is quite a difference. It is a comparatively easy crop to corner and as a general rule, 
it soon passes into the hands of a very few soon after it is gathered. 

A few years ago, it was predicted that the amount of the wild product would ac¬ 
tually decrease, but owing to the increas¬ 
ed prices and the interest now being taken in the culture of pecans, the wild trees are receiving more attention than formerly and it is a fact that in all pecan markets, 
there will always be a considerable quan¬ 
tity of the wild crop. Since the man who gathers this wild crop is not always the owner of the trees, the question naturally 



178 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


arises as to how the marketing of this crop can be handled. It is a phase of the problem that will require careful thought. It may be it will solve itself. 
As the crop increases in value, the pro¬ 
duct may be more carefully looked after by the owners. 

This wild nut is today, the most impor¬ 
tant item in our pecan trade. Most peo¬ 
ple to whom the pecan is known, have never seen any other than the small wild nut, and could not even tell what its nat¬ 
ural color is. They have never seen it in its natural color. It has been stained, 
polished and fixed up to improve (?) its looks before it gets into their hands. It is hard to make them believe that there are any larger and better nuts than those to which they have been accustomed. 

PICKING AND HANDLING CROP. 

*• 

Some people, who do not know, be¬ 
lieve it entails no cost or trouble to gath¬ 
er a pecan crop. True the gathering of 

■ 

a crop from young trees is not a particu¬ 
larly difficult piece of work, but the se¬ 
curing of a crop from trees, four or five feet in diameter and one hundred and fifty feet high is another matter. In the case of large old trees, one must wait for the crop to come down or invest in a set of Wright Aeroplanes. Planted on the soils of our State, the trees are not likely to reach such large size and for many years after they come into bearing, the crop may be hand picked. Hand-picked! 
Some one holds up his hands in amaze¬ 
ment. But the man who' wants to get all that there is in his crop will have to hand pick it. One of the faults of some varieties is that their crop does not ripen 


uniformly. But the time to begin gather¬ 
ing is when the greater number of burrs are open and the points of the nuts are peeping out. Then strip the trees—tak¬ 
ing open and closed burrs together. Some of the closed ones will open, those which do not are probably faulty. Based on an estimate made on trees, twenty-five to thirty years old, the picking and shuck¬ 
ing of the crop, ready for drying, is from one and a half to two cents per pound. 

packages. 

Pecans shipped in sacks have a myste¬ 
rious way of being lost or reduced in quantity. Just why this is, is hard to say, but if you try to ship nuts in a sack, 
you will find out. I have even known shipments that started out as a sack of pecans to arrive at destination a sack of cotton seed hulls. They had been transformed on the way. As interesting as the transmutation of metals! 

To insure safety to the product wooden or heavy corrugated packages should be used. For large quantities, the barrel is best. It is a little unwieldy, weighing ioo to 125 pounds or thereabouts. Half bar¬ 
rels are good for smaller quantities while for still smaller shipments wooden or pa¬ 
per boxes are best. Care and neatness in putting the product up in attractive shape are well repaid, just as in the handling of any other fruit. 

TIME TO MARKET. 

We have heard that after we have har¬ 
vested our crop, we can sit down and wait until conditions are just right before mar¬ 
keting it. In my humble opinion, while 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


it is not wise policy to rush the product into the market, it is best to market it without waiting an undue length of time. 
There is such a thing as waiting too long. 
The active demand for the crop, the nut market season, begins a little before 
Thanksgiving and covers the period up to 
January first. It will probably be found that during this period the best prices can be secured. Some believe that the crop can be carried through into the following summer and marketed then. In the south generally, and under ordinary conditions, 
it is unwise to do so. We must not lose sight of the fact that the pecan kernel contains a very considerable amount of fat, sometimes as much as 70 per cent, 
and this fat or oil is likely to become ran¬ 
cid in our warm summer weather. In cooler regions it does not deteriorate so rapidly, of course, and cold storage would keep the nuts in good condition for a much longer period. 

Rancidity is brought about by the ac¬ 
tion of the air. In this connection, I 
might call attention to an interesting ex¬ 
periment. February 2, 1905, the Beech¬ 
nut Packing Company, put up pecan nuts and kernels in vacuum jars. The vac¬ 
uum was, of course, not entirely absolute, 
the exhaustion being about 28 4-10. The last of these cans were opened in April, 
1910, a little over five years after they were put up and found to be in good eat¬ 
ing condition still. There was a little de¬ 
terioration, but not much. In this, we have demonstrated that pecans and ex¬ 
tracted kernels can be held for long pe¬ 
riods without becoming rancid. 


179! 

MARKETING METHODS. 

At the present time, the bulk of the pe¬ 
can crop of high quality is handled in the private trade. It is largely a mail order business, built up without resort to much publicity. No doubt this trade will con¬ 
tinue to take large amounts from year to year. Crops of several thousand pounds are now marketed by single individuals in this way. This method is a good one. 

Lately, the larger sized nuts are finding their way into the fancy grocery trade, in considerable quantities. This trade is good if properly and carefully handled. 

But while these and similar methods answer for the present, the time is not far distant when other methods will have to be worked out. Those of us who have the best interests of the industry at heart need to think along these lines. The plans as outlined by Mr. Burton, now in opera¬ 
tion in the handling of citrus fruits in our 
State, can, I believe be applied to the han¬ 
dling of the pecan crop. It will have to be handled through an exchange or a mar¬ 
keting association. The task will be a large one as a territory almost or quite as large as the cotton area will have to be covered. It stretches from Virginia 10 
Texas. There is no need to enter into de¬ 
tails at this time, but I am convinced that some of us here tonight will see the time when such an association is actually in charge of the pecan crop of the South. 
Some of us may take part in its formation. 
It will mean much to the industry. 


DISCUSSION 

Mr.-: What will the cultured 

product bring in the wholesale market ? 


12 




180 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Prof. Hume: I cannot answer that definitely. I remember .trying this out when the wild nuts were selling at 4c. a pound. The cultivated ones were quoted me at 16c. a pound. I have tried it out when the wild nuts were 8c. a pound and the cultivated product was 20c. a pound in carload lots. I cannot tell you what the prices have been for the last year or two, but I have no doubt they run about the same. There is a wonderful demand for pecan nuts. Sometime ago, I took the matter up with Huyler’s. While they were very diffident about , giving out fig¬ 


ures they stated the extract kernels enter¬ 
ed into a very large percentage of their products. They use them by the ton and they are unable to get anywhere near what they require. I can remember the time when the only pecan we ever saw came with the shell on, but a large pro¬ 
portion of the product is now sold with the shell off, and you can .buy pecan kernels by the pound, just as you buy any other grocery product. There is practically no limit to the market demand for the pecan* 


Combinations Adapted to Pecan Production 


W. W. Carroll. 


Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen'. 

Mr. Charles M. Barnwell, musing thoughtfully on the bank of the river 
Flint, gazing into the opaque density of its flowing tide, would pause, if interro¬ 
gated, to observe that the best combina¬ 
tion adapted to pecan production is brains, 
experience and a fat bank account. Some have brains. They admit it. A few have experience, but rarely boast about it. I 
have heard of several persons possessing fat bank accounts, but have found it dif¬ 
ficult to induce them to combine the same with my brains and experience. 

The three component parts above nam¬ 
ed, combined in one and the same indi¬ 
vidual or company, would go far toward spelling success; but many of us who are growing and planting pecan trees will have to hire the brains, acquire the experi¬ 
ence and accumulate by some means 
(which I am not at liberty to disclose) 
the necessary bank account. 

Therefore it becomes necessary to dis¬ 
cuss under the title of this paper combi¬ 
nations that will produce revenue to help the bank account, that will help build the soil, that will help to reduce the great burden of expense incidental to caring properly for a large acreage of pecan trees. 


It is a grand and beautiful and uplift¬ 
ing thing to sit in the shade of one nine or ten year old pecan tree and reflect that it has a crop on it worth fifteen to twenty- 
five dollars. It is then highly entertain¬ 
ing to calculate what one hundred acres—- 
five hundred acres—a thousand acres of land, with twenty such trees to the acre, 
will produce at twenty years of age. I al¬ 
ways stop figuring on this when I get up into the millions. I am not very clever in mathematics. 

I felt, however, that I was justified in figuring that one hundred or one thousand acres of pecan trees, treated like the thir¬ 
ty or more trees in my test grove, would yield as big returns as my trees are yield¬ 
ing if the problem could be solved of pro¬ 
viding proper equipment and organiza¬ 
tion and means for the care of the trees. 

This problem must be solved by making the land between the trees produce profita¬ 
ble crops and increase in fertility, by mak¬ 
ing lands not planted in trees produce rev¬ 
enue to assist in the work. Hence the answer, which is the shibboleth of the modern farmer—cliversification. 

It is impossible to outline any fixed system of diversification. One must be governed by the extent and character of the land to be used for the grove. A 
body of land, all clear, free from stumps, 
with no shade or running water, permits 






182 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


solid planting in. trees, but there can be no combinations used here, except straight cultivation of the middles with crop ro¬ 
tation. This is the most expensive type of the pecan grove but it is very well suited to the large company plan of sell¬ 
ing in blocks. The conservative man who fiuys ten acres and plants two hundred 
•trees thereon, expecting to give them care¬ 
ful attention cannot combine stockraising with his venture. His field offers him poultry as a side line, or a rotation of farm or truck crops. He usually com¬ 
promises by getting a darkey to plow and hoe (and skin up) his trees in exchange for the privilege of growing a sorry crop of corn or cotton in the middles. If the land is worked intelligently and is suited to cotton this crop, with its shallow, rapid, 
clean cultivation and nitrogen conserv¬ 
ing shade, is a splendid setting for young growing pecan trees. This plan effects a saving, perhaps, but is often ineffective 
•and rarely produces any revenue. 

So the conclusion forces itself that, to take advantage of combinations to help in making a pecan orchard, rare discrim¬ 
ination should be exercised in selecting the land. Many acres more than are to be planted in trees should be secured in order that the land for the grove may be wisely chosen, in order that there may be room for tenant farmers who can fur¬ 
nish ready day labor, in order to furnish pastures for cattle and sheep and swine that will in turn consume forage and grain produced, yielding in return natural fertilizers that are best of all for grow¬ 
ing trees when properly combined with 
•commercial fertilizers. Water should be 
• abundant; woodland, yielding acorns and other “mast” and furnishing shade and 


good rooting for pigs and grazing for cattle, should be desired. Where these things are absent the help for the soil must come, for the most part, from the fertilizer warehouse, and the price there¬ 
for from the bank account. I may be wrong but I figured things out that way; 
and our hogs have swamp and acorn range, our pure-bred and graded cattle have meadow and stream for support, and our negro tenants are near at hand to fur¬ 
nish labor when needed. From this old southern plantation of 3,400 acres, one- 
half woodland and pasturage, I select the sandy hammock land with deep clay sub¬ 
soil for the pecan trees. Fields are de¬ 
voted to raising corn for feeding mules and finishing hogs, sufficient hay is saved, 
peanuts are provided to be harvested by the hogs who have acorns as well to help flavor the pork, graded cattle, with only pure-bred males in the herd, furnish milk cows for sale, or offer opportunities for dairy products which may be utilized la¬ 
ter, while all “culls” and surplus males are fattened for beef. Now this is my theory and if I am wrong I will find it out in time—but it is a success so far. I 
believe that animal fertilizer, when prop¬ 
erly treated is the best for pecan trees. 
To secure it one must have work-stock, 
cows and hogs. To have these one must have pastures and a full bin and stack. 
To have them without undue outgo one must make them profitable. So I argue that only part of the farm 1 should be given to the trees—for cows and hogs and young pecan trees will not live amicably together inside the same fence. I have tried it; the hogs and the cows tried it— 
but the trees didn’t half try. They gave up without a struggle. It is not meant 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


18.3 


that solid bodies of land should never be planted to trees by men or companies with ample means. It is meant that farm made money and farm made fertilizer helps pecan trees grow—and it takes land and labor to make either or both of them. 

One of the best combinations for the good of the whole pecan section is the one the thrifty farmer makes when he improves the value of his farm by put¬ 
ting out a few acres of standard varie¬ 
ties of pecans. There are farmers in my home county (Jefferson) who gather from a few seedling trees that were planted under an almost passing whim and ma¬ 
tured under adverse conditions, nuts worth more money than the better class of negro tenant can get gross for the en¬ 
tire crop made behind a good mule. 

I believe in the future of the pecan nut. It will add to the wealth and prog¬ 
ress and fame of the south. It will make our laborers busier, our lands more val¬ 
uable, our citizens more comfortable. The cotton states are offered another monop¬ 
oly to share honors with king cotton, and the pecan is already a commercial factor in the south’s affairs. 

I am reminded suddenly of a mental picture that is not pleasing. It is the rec¬ 
ollection of wide fields studded with trees, these crowded with briars and weeds and promising nothing but disap¬ 
pointment and failure to those whose money placed them there. Many an acre, 
planted to pecan trees that were carelessly dug, set out late and hurriedly and cared for not intelligently or not at all, stands today, as a warning to promoters and in¬ 
vestors alike that they should not prom¬ 
ise too much, that they should not under¬ 
take too much. Better a dozen good trees 


well set and thrifty than a thousand gnarled and knotty and yellow and worth¬ 
less from failure of funds to furnish proper fertilizers and cultivation. 

So it is wise and proper that one and all should set about the business of mak¬ 
ing pecan groves well guarded against the shocks of seasons and the demands on the bank roll; and the remedy for ills that I 
offer and believe in and practice is in the words of my text—“Combinations 
Adapted to Pecan Production.” There are many combinations besides those I 
named, and it is for us to figure out the ones most suited to our several condi¬ 
tions. 


DISCUSSION 

Mr. Williams: I would like to ask if the pecans can be grafted on the common pignut hickory with any success? 

Mr. Carroll: I am making an experi¬ 
ment in that line now, and I believe they can be worked on upland hickory. I have about 25 or 30 of the upland hickories cut back for budding. I tried only one last season and the buds took as readily as on any pecan stock I ever worked. I 
have about 1,000 of wild hickory on my place. There are about 400 or 500 in one body and I have decided to put them to some use. I am going to experiment with them and see if they will work. I budded the one with the Delmas pecan and the bud remained dormant until this spring. 
It now has shoots four feet long and has begun to branch out. I have not worked the pignut hickory. 

Mr. Graves: I have tried the experi¬ 
ment, and while they have made splendid 



184 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


growth, they have never borne any amount of nuts. 

Mr. Henderson : I was down in- 

-i, where they have very good 

hammock land. A gentleman there show¬ 
ed me about 35 trees that were budded on this pignut. The trees were about 12 
inches in diameter and had tops large enough to carry a barrel of nuts to the tree. He told me he had never seen a nut on them. They were the Van Deman and the Stuart varieties. 

Mr. Smithwick: I have here in my hand a photograph of a hickory tree that was sixty feet high when I topped it. I 
grafted a great many different varieties of pecans into it and they are all growing. 
I call it my experiment for varieties. I 
have fourteen varieties in the top of that tree and the most of them: are carrying fruit the second year from budding. 

I would like to ask the gentleman from 
Gainesville if the trees around that sec¬ 
tion budded on the hickory, have matur¬ 
ed any fruit yet? 

Mr. Henderson: Not a very abundant crop. Mr. Moseley was budding trees twelve years ago and they bore some nuts every year, but never anything like a full crop. He budded trees twelve years ago 


that were twelve inches in diameter. 

Md*. Williams: This pignut hickory is a little different from the regular hickory. 
The pignut is a more willowy growth and grows along the edge of swamp land. I 
have tried to destroy them, but would like to put them to some usefulness, if possi¬ 
ble. 

Prof. Hume: I have seen many hicko¬ 
ries and some of considerable size with both top work and grafts, but I have nev¬ 
er eaten the nuts. Some of them are good trees now, but whether they will produce any nuts or not, I do not know: Howev¬ 
er, there is no reason under the sun why, 
if the graft takes and makes a growth, it should not bear a crop. 

Mr. Henderson: I think the ones around Gainesville are beechnut hicko¬ 
ries. What they have produced so fapis a small bitter nut of no value at all. 

Mr. Miller: It will not do to judge a tree too soon. The pecan grafted on the hickory may take a longer time to come into bearing. We have so much better stocks as a rule, it is better to use the pecan for grafting on except where you have other trees growing naturally and want to convert them to a profitable pur¬ 
pose. 




Report of Committee on Statistics 


Chas. M. Barnwell. 


Mr . President, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

I find every one is planting larger and better trees, and not planting so many per day. They are using more and better fertilizers. They are not planting cotton and corn on the tree rows, and they are cultivating a strip on each side of the row of not less than three feet, and are en¬ 
deavoring to get around at least once a week. 

ACREAGE PLANTED FALL, AND WINTER 


I909, AND I9IO. 

Albany District about. 1,250 

Hardaway District about. 1,800 

Baconton District about. 1,400 

DeW’itt District about ... 125 


Total number of acres. 4,675 

ACREAGE PLANTED WINTER I909-IO 

Americus District. 278 

Plaines District. 50 

Ellaville District. 30 

Smithville District. 303 

Fort Valley District. 100 

Richland District.225 

Montezuma District. 50 

Columbus District. 50 

Cobb District . 50 


Total No. acres.1,136 


Some are planting small trees, some large and some medium sizes. Corn and cotton crops are planted on ground be¬ 
tween trees, leaving 3 feet to trees first year, 4 feet second year, 5 feet 3rd year, 
6 feet 4th and 5th years. All kinds of crops are planted between tree rows ex¬ 
cept small grain and in some places oats, 
wheat and rye, are planted in rows be¬ 
tween trees and cultivated like other crops. 

H. W. Smithwick. 

Thomasville and Boston section have planted 805 acres to pecans. I do not know amount at Cairo. Probably 400 
acres. 

B. W. Stone. 

Mr. Miller: Georgia is, perhaps, 
planting more acres in nuts than any other state, with the exception of Texas, 
and Florida is coming right along behind her. 

Mr. Griffing: There has been to my knowledge no extensive planting from 
Madison east this present year in Florida. 
Last year, when we figured the planting up to that time, we did not include what could be termed South Florida; I mean by that south of Ocala. The planting up to that time was about 1600 acres. There have been a few plantings of ten up to 




















186 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


fifty acres this year, which probably brings the total up to 1700 or 1800 acres; 
that is, what we have reports from, that 
I know of. The additional acreage of which I have no definite knowledge, 
would easily bring the acreage up to 2,- 
500 acres in the territory from Ocala north and from Lake City, east. That is made up largely in Alachua, Baker, Du¬ 
val and Bradford counties and in that territory. Figuring on 25 trees to the acre, would make something like about 
60,000 trees. 

Mr. Miller: We will now hear from 
West Florida, from Mr. R. C. Simpson. 

Mr. Simpson: When I got these fig¬ 
ures together, it was with the understand¬ 
ing that it was the total number of trees planted. I have rather accurate figures on Jefferson county, but on several of the other counties they are mere estimates and the accurate figures could not be ob¬ 
tained : 

Jefferson County, 36,700 trees. 

Leon County, 3,000 trees. 

Gadsden County, 3,000 trees. 

Madison County, 3,000 trees. 

In other western counties of Florida, 
10,000 to 15,000 trees. 

Mr. Miller: You can see from these figures what the industry is doing and that it will not be so many years before the pecan crop will rival in importance that of the citrus and other fruit pro¬ 
ducts. Its enormous acreage and yield is going to create a product that will need some such help to market as you are find¬ 
ing in the citrus exchange. 

Mr. Rich: I would like to ask a ques¬ 
tion. It has been said in this discussion that there are at least a million trees now 


planted. We have a very accurate ac¬ 
count of the planting in Georgia. I think you will bear me out when I say that the planting in Georgia last year was 1200 
acres and this year 7,000 acres. 20 trees to the acre is putting it very mildly and is really below the average. Now, the point I am trying to get at is: counting your trees at $2.00 per tree, which is a very moderate price, you can see where there is an investment of about $300,000 
in pecan trees in Georgia alone; just the actual trees. Take the report of 
Mr. Simpson, that in his territory there were about 25,000 trees. The trees he re¬ 
fers to are on an average of three or four years of age. Say there are twenty trees to the acre; they ought to be worth 
$8.00 apiece. See what that will bring the investment up to. It shows that lots of money is being put into this industry and there must be a reason for it. I 
would ask that some one give us practi¬ 
cal, actual experience, the good and the bad alike. 

Mr. Miller: I would like for Mr. Car- 
roll to tell us something about his trees in the way of production. 

Mr. Carroll: I experimented first on about one and a half acres of ground. 
So many people told me not to do it, say¬ 
ing I would never live to see any nuts on the trees and would get no benefit from them. I bought the best trees I 
could find, cultivated them and took good care of them and brought some of those trees to bearing in the course of three or four years. I found out that some of the nuts were very inferior. Then I sawed them off and top worked several of them. 
Now, I have 33 on an acre and a half of ground. About half a dozen trees were 


FLORIDA ,STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


187 


planted in 1901. I planted more trees in 
1902, 1903 and 1904. I have trees from six years of age up to nine years. I am getting 40 to 70 pounds off of nine year old trees. None of them sell for less than 
20c. per pound and some of them sell for 
40c. and 50c. per pound. I have some of the best varieties; these are the VanDe- 
man, Nelson, Frotscher, Stuart, Schley, 
Delmas, Dewey, Hall, Alley, Bolton, 
Moore and other varieties. I have no trees in this grove that are not growing well and bearing full, heavy crops. The nuts are well filled and of most excellent quality. 

The best record I have made with any tree was a five year old tree from which 
I got $6.25 worth of nuts in one year, 
selling them at 25c. per pound. I got 70 
pounds from a Moore tree in 1908, which was set in January, 1901. There is a six and a seven year old tree from which I 
got a total of 50 pounds last year, and sold the nuts at 50c. per pound. I have about a hundred acres planted, part of it set in 1906, part in 1907-08. Of the trees planted in 1906, about twelve or fifteen are already bearing. In fact, a few set in 1907 are bearing a little, and they are growing very thriftily. 

The trees planted on the big plantation did not do' so well. We have had about eighteen months of dry weather in our section, but the trees are doing fairly well, all things considered. They have a good color but are not making much growth. 

The test grove I have at home is an interesting sight for those who are inter¬ 
ested in pecans. If any of the gentle¬ 
men present come through Monticello, I 
will be very glad to show them around. 


On my land I am planting heavily of the Moore. It is a good bearing variety; 
a small nut and a nut that no one pays much attention to, but it is of good qual¬ 
ity and thin shell. The Schley is also good. I have many varieties on my lands, 
but if I had it to do over again I would select the Schley, the Delmas, the Moore, 
and possibly one to three other varieties, 
and plant exclusively of these. 

A Member: Is the pecan a prolific grower in the southern part of Florida? 

Prof. Hume: I have seen pecans grow¬ 
ing well in Fort Myers; as far south as that. Now, it is a question of soil in 
Florida. You can stand on soil that is good for pecans, and take two or three steps and be on soil that is fit for nothing but raising disturbances on. I would look carefully into the matter of soil be¬ 
fore I planted. On high pine land, you want to see what kind of subsoil there is, 
to be certain that the drainage is good. 

Mr. Henderson: Do they bear regu¬ 
larly ? 

Prof. Hume: They will compare fa¬ 
vorably with other crops in that respect. 
I don’t think they bear as regularly as the citrus fruits. It depends entirely on where you are. As you go a little further south in the State, they do not bear as regularly as the citrus fruits in the same section. A great deal depends on the va¬ 
riety, also. With some varieties they will run, to 1 my knowledge, for ten or twelve year and never fail to bring some crop. 
Other varieties only bear every other year. The matter of varieties adapted to the locality has to be very carefully con¬ 
sidered, if you want to make a success of pecan raising. 


188 


FLORIDA STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 


Mr. Rich: Is the VanDeman a regu¬ 
lar bearer ? 

Prof. Hume: It is not. In some sec¬ 
tions of the lower south it does not do well. 

Mr. Campbell: I believe the varieties that would do well in the Manatee river section would be the Teche, which is a heavy and regular bearer; the Russell is another; the Curtis is another. The Cur¬ 
tis runs about seventy to the pound. It 
It is of very good size and one of the best quality nuts I know anything about. 

Mr. Carroll: In mentioning the varie¬ 
ties I did, I do not recommend them to be planted anywhere except on soils similar to my own. They might be entirely un¬ 
fitted to someone else’s land or some oth¬ 
er section. You can very easily find out or get a line on what is best for your soil before purchasing the stock. I would not venture to recommend to these gen¬ 
tlemen any one particular variety for their planting without knowing soil conditions. 

Mr. Miller: It is growing late, ladies and gentlemen, and we thank you for your kind attention. This fall the Na¬ 
tional Nut Growers’ Association will meet at Monticello, and we cordially in¬ 
vite you to be present and we assure you we will open your eyes to what we are 


doing. The association we have here is simply a sub-organization of the Nation¬ 
al Association. 

Prof. Hume: I am sure we are very glad to have had this Nut Growers’ As¬ 
sociation with us. Tonight we succeeded in covering nut culture for the first time. 

Mr. Hart: I know it is very late to call this matter up, but I want to speak of one thing. I, with others, was appointed a committee at the meeting last year to go to Washington and see what could be done to get assistance there in the matter of studying blight of the orange tree. I 
went to see quite a number of professors, 
but did not see Prof. Waite there. I 
saw him afterwards at St. Catherine’s. 
Such work is in his hands. He is in the 
State at the present time, and I think he is here largely to> see the importance of the work and become convinced of the need of giving us assistance, and I would ask that every one who is interested in the matter who may see him at any time during his stay, will try to give him all the information possible so that lie may come to know the importance of the work and aid us in getting the help we so sore¬ 
ly need. 

Report of Committee on Final Resolu¬ 
tions. 


Adjourned. 


Topical Index 


PAGE 


A 

Address of Welcome . 18 

Address of Welcome, Response to. 19 

Acid Soils.105 

Annual Address, President’s. 20 

Agriculture in Rural Schools. 32 

B 

Boxes, Picking . 68 

Blue Mold .45, 50 

By-Laws . 3 

c 

Citranges . 37, 38 

Citrus Seminar .34, 35 

Citrus Fruits of Florida, New Types of. 36 

Citrus Fruits, Testing New Stocks for. 40 

Citrus Culture, Methods of. 57 

Citrus Hybrids, Testing Out New. 41 

Citrus Hybrids . 38 

Citrus Fruits, Methods of Picking and Ship¬ 
ping . 66 

Clippers .54, 67 

Clipper-Cut Oranges .48, 66, 67 

Constitution . 3 

County Fairs . 33 

Correspondence Course . 34 

Corn Institutes . 3 2 

Corn as a Second Crop .116 

Competition . 29 

D 

Deciduous Fruits of Florida.151 

Dryer .12, 69 

Decay of Florida Oranges in Transit to Mar¬ 
ket, Causes of. 43 

E 

Experiment Station . 35 

F 

Fairs, County . 33 

Fair, Interstate . 33 


PAGE 


Farmers’ Institutes, Proper . 33 

Fertilizer .58, 62 

Fertilizers, Studies .108 

Fertilizer, Some Principles Underlying the Use 

of .103 

Fruit Exchange, Florida.154 

Fungus .45, 75, 83, 96 

Fungus Diseases. 81 

Fumigation .67, 86 

G 

Grading .. 69 

Grapefruit, Budding . 40 

H 

Hawks, Dr. John Milton.169 

Hidebound . 60 

Horticultural and Agricultural Education in 

Florida. 26 

Humus, Deficiency of.104 

I 

Interstate Fair . 33 

Inoculation Experiment.75, 76 

Irrigation Experiments .141, 143, [64 

L 

Lime.62, 64, 107 

M 

Muck . 61 

Machine, Washing. 52 


Members . 7 

N 

Necrology .169 

o 

Officers, 1910 . 5 

Officers, Report of.161 

Oranges, Washing.50, 51, 53, 55 

Ornamentals .118, 126, 133 

Ornamentals for the Lower East Coast.131 




























































TOPICAL INDEX 


PAGE 


P 

Packing and Shipping Citrus Fruits, Methods 

of ... 66 

Pecan Growers’ Association— 

Observation on Pecan Culture.173 

Combinations Adapted to Pecan Production. 181 
Report of Committee on Statistics.185 


Picking Coat . 67 

Picking Boxes. 68 

Picking and Handling. 47 

Permanganate of Potash.. .. 79 

Population, Increase of. 31 

President’s Annual Address. 20 


R 

Rust Mite .63, 64, 65, 87 

Rural Schools, Agriculture in. 32 

s 

Scale .92, 99 

Seminar, Citrus. 34 

Shipping . 70 

Shipping Experiments . 50 

Spray . 63 

Spraying . 64 

Spraying Solutions . 84 

Standing Committees . 6 

Stems, Long .,. 68 


PAGE 

Stem End Rot. 73 

Sulphur .63, 64, 65 

Sulphur Solution.63, 87 

Sulphur Soda . 65 

T 

Tangelos .34, 41 

Tropical Fruits .135 

Transplanting Orange Trees .. 58 

Trifoliate . t .37, 42 

u 

University of Florida. 33 

w 

Washing . 68 

Washing Experiments .49, 51 

Washing Machines.52, 53, 70 

Washing of Oranges.50, 51 

Whitefly .80, 102 

Whale Oil Soap . 93 

Whitefly, Problem of the. 90 

Whitefly, Spring, Summer and Fall Treatment 84 

Whitefly, New Theory for Repelling. 88 

Whitefly, Winter Treatment. 83 

Whitefly, Methods of Controlling. 81 

Whitefly Investigations . 80 

Whitefly, Treatment With Insects. 83 































































































































* 


































































































































New York Botanical Garden Library 



3 5185 00310 0821 































































































































































