FORTIETH ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



State Horticultural Society 



OF MISSOURI 



MEETINGS AT 



Springfield, June 8, 9, 10, and Moberly, Dec. 7, 8, 9, 1897. 



LI3.RARY 

NEW York: 



L. A. Goodman, Secretar}'-, 

WESTPORT, MO. 







JEFFERSON CITY, MO.: 
TRIBUNE PRINTING COMPANY, STATE PRINTERS AND BINDERS, 

1898. 






Missouri State Horticultural Society. 



To His Excellency, LoN V. Stephens, Governor: 

This report of our Society work, of the meetings held, of the moneys expended and of 
the local societies and counties reporting for the year 1897 Is respectfully submitted. 

L. A. Goodman, Secretary, 

Westport, Mo. 



rr^4i.„n • ^ n I,- „ . City OF Jefferson, Decemt)eri9, 1897. 

To the Covimissioners of Public. Printing : • •■^, '■'du,. 

I require for the use of my office 4,000 copies of Missouri Horticultural report-2,()00 

bound In cloth and 2,000 In paper-whlch 1 desire printed as per accompanying sample. ' 

Respectfully, 

L. A. Goodman, Secretary, 

Westport, Mo. 
Approved : 

A. A. Lesueur, Secretary of State. 

J. M. Seibert, State Auditor. 

J. L. Pitts, State Treasurer. 



Officers for the Year 1897. 



Governor LON V. STEPHENS Ex-Offlclo Member of Executive Committee 

J. C. KVANS, President Xorth Kansas City 

N. r . MUliKA.Y, Vice-President Oregon 

SAMUEL MILLER, Second Vice-President Bluffton 

L. A. GOODMAN , Secretary Westport 

A. NELSON, Treasurer .....Lebanon 



List of .Honorary Members. 



R. H. Jesse, President state University Columbia 

Hon. A. A. Lesueur, Secretary of State Jefferson City 

Mi.*iS M. E. MUKTFELDT KIrkvvood 

George Hussman ; Napa , Cal . 

T . T . Lyon South Haven , Mich . 

C. W. MURTFELDT Klrkwood 

Hon. N.J. CoLMAN St. Louis 

Samuel Miller Bluffton 

Prof. M. G. Kern St. Louis 

Prof. B. T. Bush ^ Independence 

Prof. B. T. Galloway Washington, D. C. 

Conrad Hartzell St. Joseph 



List of Life Members. 



Wm. Muir, old member Fox Creek 

H Claggett, old member. Kansas City 

J.C.EvAx.s North Kansas City 

L.A.Goodman Westport 

D . M. DUNLAP Fulton 

D.A.ROBNETT • Columbia 

CiiAS . HuBER Seneca 

C. H. Evans St. Louis 

W. R. Wilkinson Altenburg 

H. M. WniTNER Fredericktown 



Standing Committees. 



Orchards. 
J. A. Dukes, Weston. D. A. Robnett, Columbia. W. H. Park, Springfield. 

Vineyards. 
Jacob Rommel, Morrison. F. McGasn, St. Joseph. J. T. Snodgrass, West Plains. 

Small Fruits . 
G. W. HOPKINS, Springfield. J. N. Menifee, Oregon. Henry Scunell, Glasgow. 

Stone Fruits. 
S. W. Gilbert, Thayer. Z. T. Russell, Carthage. Arthur Patterson, Klrksvllle. 

Vegetables. 
C. M. Williams, Marcellne. J. Ambs, Columbia. AY. E. Lilly, ChllUcothe. 

Flotvers. 
E. H. Michel, St. Louis. Mrs. G. E. Dugan, Sedalla. C. I. Robards, Butler. 

Ornamentals. 
Geo. E. Kessler, Kansas City. Prof. H. 0. Irish, St. Louis. R. E. Bailey, Fulton. 

Entomology . 
Miss M. E. MuRTFELDT, Klrkwood. Prof. J. M. Stbdman, Columbia. 

Botany. 
Prof. G. C. Broadhead, Columbia. G. A. Atwood, Springfield. 

' B. F. Bush, Independence. 

Nomenclature. 
W. G. Gano, Parkvllle. E. L. Pollard, Olden. J. H. Logan, Nevada. 

New Fruits. 
Samuel Miller, Bluffton. J. F. Wilcox, St. Joseph. A. H. Gilkeson, Warrensburg. 

Ornithology. 
O. Widman, Old Orchard. C. W. Murtfeldt, Klrkwood. C. Howard, Willow Springs. 

Injurious Fungi. 
Prof. J. C. Whitten, Columbia. Prof. W. Trelease.'SI. Louis. 

Packing and Marketing Fruits. 
E. T. HOLLiSTER, St. Louis. H. E. MosELT, Olden. Henry Adkins, Sarcoxle. 

Transportation . 
J. M. Rice, Sarcoxle, C. C. Bell, Boonvllle. L. A. Goodman, Westport. 

Horticultural Education. 

Chairman, G. B. Lamm, Sedalla. L. A. Goodman, AVestport. Proi. J. C. AVhitten, Columbia. 

Mrs. G. E. Dugan, Sedalla. Miss M. E. Murtfeldt, Klrkwood. 

Prof. AA'M. Trelease, St. Louis. Prof. J. R. Kikk, Jefferson City. 



/ 



Missouri State Horticultural Societ}-, Organized January 5, 

1859, at Jefferson City. 



TNCOKPORA.TION AND RE0KGAN1ZA.TI0N OF THE HORTICULTURAL 
SOCIETY BY AN ACT OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY IN 1893. 

The following law was passed by the last Legislature incorporat- 
ing the State Horticultural Society. The Executive Committee met 
soon after the passage of this act and accepted its provisions, and at 
the semi-annual meeting of the Society at Columbia, June 6, 7, 8, 1893, 
the act was adopted as part of the constitution of the Society. 

MEMBERSHIP. 

Under the new constitution the law requires the payment of $1 
per year for membership fee. We hope that we shall have a good 
long list of members under our plan for business. The plan under 
which we have been working, of giving each local society the privilege 
of paying their fee into their local society, thus making them a mem- 
ber of the State Society, cannot now avail. Each person must become 
a, member of the State Society and keep up his membership each year. 

We should like to see a good number of life members also. Life 
membership, $10. L. A. Goodman, Secretary. 

ACT OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY. 

The Missouri State Horticultural Society Is hereby Instituted and created a body cor- 
porate, to be named and styled as above, and shall have perpetual succession, power to 
sue and be sued, complain and defend In all courts, and to make and use a common seal 
and alter the same at pleasure. 

The Missouri State Horticultural Society shall be composed ot such persons as take 
an Interest In the advancement of Horticulture in this State, who shall apply for member- 
ship and pay into the Society treasury the sum of one dollar per year, or ten dollars for a 
life membership, the basis for organization to be tlie Missouri State Horticultural Society, 
as now known and existing, and wliose expenses have been borne and annual reports 
paid for by appropriations from the State treasury. The business of the Society, so far as 
it relates to transactions with the State, shall be conducted by an Executive Board, to be 
composed of the President, Vice-President, Second Vice-President, Secretary and Treas- 
urer, who shall be elected by ballot at an annual meeting of the Society. The Governor of 
the State shall be ex officio a member of the Board— all other business of the Society to be 
conducted as Its by-laws may direct. All appropriations made by the State for the aid of 
the Soctety shall be expended by means of requisitions to be made by order of the Board 
on the State Auditor, signed by the President and Secretary and attested with the seal; and 
the Treasurer shall annually publish a detailed statement of the expenditures of the Board, 



6' STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

covering all moneys received by It. The Public Printer shall annually, under the direction 
of the Board, print such number of the reports of the proceedings of the Board, Society 
and auxiliary societies as may, in the judgment of the State Printing Commission, be jus- 
tified by the appropriation made for that purpose by the General Assembly, such annual 
report not to contain more than 400 pages. The Secretary of the Society shall receive a 
salary of eight hundred dollars per annum as full compensation for his services; all other 
offlcei's shall serve without compensation, except that they may receive their actual ex- 
penses in attending meetings of the Board. 



Constitution. 



ARTICLE I. This association shall be known as the Missouri State Horticultural Soci- 
ety. Its object shall be the promotion of horticulture in all its branches. 

Akt II. Any person may become a member of this Society upon the payment of one 
dollar, and membership shall continue upon the payment of oue.dollar annually. The pay- 
ment of ten dollars at any one time shall constitute a pei'son a life member, and honorary 
members may be elected at any regular meeting of the Society. And any lady may become 
a member by giving her name to the Secretary. 

Art. III. The officers of this Society shall consist of a President, Vice-President, Sec- 
ond Vice-President, a Secretary and a Treasurer, who shall be elected hy ballot at each reg- 
ular annual meeting, and whose term of office shall begin on the first day of June following 
their election. 

Art. IV. The elective officers of this Society shall constitute an Executive Committee, 
at any meeting of which a majority of the members shall have power to transact business. 
The other duties of the officers shall be such as usually pertain to the same officers in simi- 
lar organizations. 

Art. V. The regular meetings of this Society shall be held annually on the first Tues- 
days in December and June, except when otherwise ordered by the Executive Committee. 
Special meetlngs'of the Society may be called by the Executive Committee, and meetings of 
the committee by the President and Secretary. 

Art. VI. As soon after each regular annual meeting as possible, the president shall 
appoint the following standing committees, and they shall be required to give a report, in 
writing, under their respective heads, at the annual and semi-annual meetings of the So- 
ciety, of what transpires during the year of Interest to the society: Orchards, Vine- 
yards, stone-i<rults. Small Fruits, Vegetables, Flowers, Ornamentals, Entomology, Orni- 
thology, Botany, Nomenclature, New Fruits, Injurious Fungi, Packing and Marketing: 
Fruit and Transportation. 

Art. VII. The Treasurer shall give a bond In twice the sum he Is expected to handle^ 
executed In trust to the President of this Society (forfeiture to be made to the Society), with 
two or more sureties, qualifying before a notary public, of their qualifications as bonds- 
men, as is provided by the statute concerning securities. 

Art. VIII. This constitution may be amended by a two-thirds vote of the members, 
present at any regular meeting. 



How to Organize a Horticultural Society, also the Cousti- 
tutiou for a Local Organization. 



Anj'one much interested on this subject of Horticulture can organ- 
ize a society if he will speak to five or six different persons who are 
known to be prominent in this matter. Tell them that there ought to 
be a society in your county, and as it is such a good fruit country, ask 
them if they do not want to help organize one. You will hardly meet 
a refusal, but will be met with the remark " that they do not believe 
there is interest enough in your county to keep one up." Never mind 
this, but make an appointment to meet in some office in town on some 
Saturday. If you can get five to come together, organize and elect 
officers. Make the meetings regular each month and on the same Satur- 
day. Some lawyer will let you have the use of his room to hold the 
meetings. Have the meeting in the best town in the county even if 
you have to go some distance to meet there. Talk this up until the 
next meeting, and let each one promise to bring another. Do not expect 
to have everyone belong, for they will not. Hold six winter meetings 
(November to April) in the city or village, and at the March or April 
meeting, select the places to hold the six summer meetings ( May to 
October) at the homes of the members. Make this a picnic dinner, 
meeting about 10 o'clock, and after the dinner, hold the meeting and 
discussion ; offer a few premiums for fruits and flowers, and have a 
general good time. Do not be afraid of a dollar or two, but use as 
much judgment in this matter as you would in any business of your 
own, and you will succeed. Talk to your neighbors about it if they 
are interested in fruit-growing, if not, choose those who are so inter- 
ested. They will not be much help to you if they are not fruit-growers. 
Make out a programme for the year, choosing one or two for an essay 
at each meeting. When the reports of the standing committees are 
made, have it done in writing, and have a report at every meeting. 
You cannot expect to have everything work in complete order at first, 
and do not get discouraged if you find trouble in the start. Take your 



8 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

wives with joii and make a good social time also. If I can be of use 
to you at any time, I will come and visit you if it is possible for me to 
get away. I will try and bring someone with me also to help along 
the good work. L. A. Goodman, 

State Secretary. 



Constitution. 



Article I. This association shall be known as the Horti- 
cultural Society. 

Art. II. All persons interested in the subject of Horticulture 
may become members of this Society by signing the Constitution and 
paying annually to the Treasurer the sum of one dollar: And pro- 
vided further, That any person paying at one time the sum of ten dol- 
lars to the Treasurer, may become a life member, and thereafter exempt 
from annual dues : Provided further, That all ladies may become mem- 
bers by signing the Constitution without the payment of one dollar. 

Art. III. Section 1. The officers of this Society shall consist 
of a President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer and Executive 
Committee, consisting of five, of which the President and Vice-Presi- 
dent shall be ex officio members. 

Sec. 2. The President shall exercise a general superintendence 
of the affairs of the Society ; preside at all meeting of the Society ; 
appoint all committees unless othetwise provided r draw all orders on 
the Treasurer as directed by the Society ; call special meetings of the 
Society or Executive Committee when deemed necessary ; he shall be 
ex officio President of the Executive Committee. 

Sec. 3. The Vice-President shall assist the President, and in his 
absence, perform his duties, and be ex officio a member of the Execu- 
t ve Committee. 

Sec. 4. The Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to the 
Society; shall keep a just and true account of the same, from what 
source received, and pay out the same upon the order of the Presi- 
dent, countersigned by the Secretary. At the meeting of the Society 

on the Saturday in December in each year (or oftener, if required 

by the Executive Committee), he shall make a full and complete re- 
port of all receipts and disbursements, and at the expiration of his 
term of office, turn over all books, papers, and all money or other 
property belonging to the Society, to his successor in office. The 



CONSTITUTION. 9 

Treasurer, before entering on the discharge of the duties of his office, 
shall enter into a bond with sufficient security, to be approved by the 

President of the Society for its use, in the sum of , conditioned 

for the faithful performance of the duties required of him in this section. 

Sec. 5. The Secretary shall keep a full and complete minute of 
each meeting of the Society, and the proceedings of the Executive 
Committee. He shall receive and pafely keep all books, periodicals, 
stationery, seeds, fruits and other like property of the Society sub- 
ject to its order ; shall correspond as may be necessary with all per- 
sons or societies as the welfare of the Society may demand. He shall 
report all the proceedings of the Executive Committee to the Society 
at its first meeting thereafter. He shall countersign all orders drawn 
upon the Treasurer by the President under the direction of the Society, 
And have the care and custody of the seal of the Society. 

Sec. 6. The Executive Committee shall assist and advise the of- 
ficers in the discharge of their duties ; prepare all premium lists; make 
all necessary arrangements for holding and conducting any and all 
such fairs as the Society may determine to hold, and such exhibitions 
of fruit as the Society may determine to make, and exercise a gen- 
eral supervision over the same, and generally to provide for the ar- 
rangements and business of the Society. 

A.RT. IV. The officers of this Society shall be elected by ballot 
from among its members for the term of one year. The annual elec- 
tion shall be held at the regular meeting of the Society on the 

Saturday in December, where the general business of the Society 
shall be transacted. Vacancies may be filled at any regular meeting 
of the Society. 

Art. V. The regular meeting of this Society shall be held on the 

Saturday of each month, at 1 o'clock p. m., at such places as the 

Society may select, at : Provided, that the meetings in the 

months of May, June, July, August, September and October of each 
year may, by a vote of the Society, be held at the residence of any of 
the members outside of the city. 

Art. VI. Executive Committee may provide: First, for the 
payment of premiums to members of the Society for the best display 
of fruit, flowers or vegetables made at any regular meeting of the So- 
ciety ; second, for essays on any subject of interest to the Society, 
and arrangement of programme for the year; third, and for determin- 
ing the places for each meeting of the Society for the months of May 
to October, inclusive. 

Art. VII. Five members of the Society shall constitute a quorum 
at any meeting, and three members of the Executive Committee shall 



10 STATE HOETICCLTUKAL SOCIETY. 

be authorized to transact basineas at any meeting of the committee 
duly called. Special meetings of the Society or Executive Committee 
may be held by order of the President or any three of the committee 
on one week's notice to all members of the Society or Board (as the 
case may be), given personally, or through the postoffice. Adjourned 
meetings may be held from time to time, as the Society may deter- 
mine. 

Art. Vlir. The funds of this Society shall not be appropriated 
to any purpose without a vote of a majority of the members present 
at any regular meeting of the Society. 

Art. IX. This Society shall have the following standing commit- 
tees, which shall be appointed by the President at the January meet- 
ing in each year : Small Fruits, Stone Fruits, Orchards, Vineyards, 
Vegetables, Flowers, Ornamentals, Eatymology, Botany, to each of 
which shall be referred all matters relating to those particular sub- 
jects. Bach of said committees shall consist of one to three mem- 
bers. 

Art. X. This Constitution may be amended by a two-thirds vote 
of all the members of the Society at any regular meeting : Provided, 
that notice of the intentioned amendment shall have been given at 
least one month prior to any action taken thereon. 

Art. XI. The meetings of this Society shall be governed by the 
parliamentary rules usual for deliberative bodies. 



List of Coiint}^ Societies. 



Adair county Horticultural Society— 
R. M. Brasher, Pres't, Klrksvllle. 

A. Patterson, Sec'y, Klrksvllle. 

Atchison County Horticultural Society— 
C. \y. Coe, Pres't, Tarkio. 
R. Lynn, Sec'y, Tarkio. 

Audrain County Horticultural Society— 
JM. B. Guthrie, Pres't., Mexico. 
K. B. Wllkerson, Vlce-Pres't, Mexico. 
R. A. Ramsay, Sec'y, Mexico. 
W. G. Huton, Ass't Sec'y, Mexico. 
Wm. Eagan, Ass't Sec'y, 'Nfexlco. 
W. M. Pearson. Treas., Mexico. 

Barry County Horticultural Association— 
W. W. Witt, Pres't, Exeter. 
G. G. James, Sec'y, Exeter. 
J. C. Crane, Treas., Exeter. 

Barton County Horticultural Society— 

C. Fink, Pres't, Lamar. 

B. D. Hayes, Sec'y, Lamar. 

Bates County Horticultural Society— 

C. I. Robards, Pres't, Butler. 
Henry Speer, Sec'y, Butler. 

Birch Tree Fruit Growers' Ass'n, Shannon 
County— 
Jas. Klrkendal, Pres't, Birch Tree. 

F. Anderson, Sec'y, Birch Tree. 

Boone County Horticultural Society— 

D. A. Robnett, Pres't, Columbia. 
Jos. Baumgartner, Sec'y, Columbia. 

G. W. Bouroughs, Treas., Columbia. 

Buchanan County Horticultural Society — 
J. H. Karnes, Pres't, St. Joseph. 
F. McCoun, Sec'y, St. Joseph. 

Butler County Horticultural Society— 

D. C. Kltterldge, Pres't, Poplar Bluff. 

B. R. Lentz, Sec'y, Poplar Bluff. 

Butterfleld Local— Barry County— 

E. B. Utter, Pres't. Butterfleld. 
J. E. Utter, Sec'y, Butterfleld. 

Benton; County, Ark , Horticultural Society— 

C. J. Eld, Pres't, Bentonvllle. 

J. C. Rucker, Vlce-Pres't, Bentonvllle. 
I. B. Lawton, Sec'y, Bentonvllle. 
N. B. Cotton, Treas., Bentonvllle. 

Callaway County Horticultural Society— 
R. T. Murphy, Pres't, Xew Bloomfleld. 
R. E. Bailey, Sec'y, Fulton. 



Camden County Horticultural Society— 
J. AV. Burnhans, Pres't, Stoutland. 
J. C. Evans, Sec'y, Stoutland. 

Central Mlssoui'l Horticultural Association— 
David Edwards, Pres't, Boonvllle. 
F. J. Boiler, 1st V. Pres't, Boonvllle. 
Mrs. John Durr, 2nd V. Pres't, Boonvllle. 
C. C. Bell, Sec'y, Boonvllle. 
W. A. Smiley, Treas., Boonvllle. 

Christian County Horticultural Society— 
M. King, Pres't, Billings. 
R. C Hendricks, Sec'y, Billings. 

Clay County Horticultural Society— 
F. M. Williams, Pres't, Barry. 
Oliver Chedlster, Sec'y, Linden, 

Cole County Horticultural Society— 
J. B. Brooks, Pres't, Jefferson City. 
T. M Barker, V. Pres't, Centertown. 
A. J. Davis, Sec'y, Jefferson City. 

F. M. Brown, Treas., Jefferson City. 

Conway Hort. Society, Laclede County— 
W. H. Getty, Pres't, Conway. 
R. O. Hardy, Rec. Sec'y, Conway. 

Gentry County Horticultural Society— 
W. A. Garrett, Pres't, Albany. 

G. E. Adams, Sec'y, Albany. 
Wm. David, Treas., Albany. 

Goodman Hort. Society, McDonald County— 
E. H. Gurney, Treas., Goodman. 

Greene County Horticultural Society— 
W. T Zlnk, Pres't, Springfield. 
A. W. Howell, V. Pres't, Springfield. 
G. A. Atwood, Sec'y, Springfield. 
H. H. Park, Treas., Springfield. 

Henry County Horticultural Society— 
M. L. Bonham, Pres't, Clinton. 
H. C. Green, V. Pres't, Clinton. 
J. M. Pretzinger, Sec'y, Clinton. 
H. F. Burns, Treas., Clinton. 

Holt County Horticultural Society- 
N. F'. Murray, Pres't, Oregon. 
J. X. Menifee, V. Pres't, Oregon. 
S. Blanchard, Sec'y and Treas., Oregon. 
(32 members.) 

Jasper County Horticultural Society— 
S. S. Riley, Pres't, Carthage. 
Z. T. Russell, Sec'y, Carthage. 



12 



STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



COUNTY SOCIETIES— Continued. 



Koshkonong Hort. Society, Oregon County— 
T. M. Culver, Pres't, Koshkonong. 
C. M. Alderson, Sec'y, Koshkonong. 
H. C. Huxley, Treas , Thayer. 

Laclede County Horticultural Society— 

A. Nelson, Pres't, Lebanon. 

C. L. Palmer, Sec'y, Lebanon. 

D. R. Dlflfenderffer, Treas., Lebanon. 

Lafayette County Horticultural Society— 
II. Turlenkle, Pres't, Alma. 
G. H. Robblns, Sec'y, Mayvlew. 

Lawrence County Horticultural Society— 
W. T. Seaward, Pres't, Marlonvllle. 

B. Logan, Sec'y, Marlonvllle. 

J. B. Logan, Treas., Marlonvllle. 

Linn County Horticultural Society— 
A. P. Swan, Pres't, Marcellne. 
II. D. Porter, V. Pres't, Marcellne. 
Hiram Long, Sec'y, Marcellne 
I. W. Porter, Treas. , Marcellne. 

Livingston Horticultural Society—, 
G. A. Smith, Pres't, Chllllcothe. 
J. T. Jackson, Sec'y, Chllllcothe. 

Madison County Horticultural Society— 

A. A. Blumer, Pres't, Frederlcktown. 
H. M. Whltener, Sec'y, Frederlcktown. 

Meramec Hort. Ass'n, Crawford County— 

B. R. Bowen, Pres't, Steelvllle. 
Peter Lovengood, V. Pres't, Steelvllle. 
Jos. Marsh, Sec'y, Steelvllle. 

K. D. Norval, Ass't Sec'y, Steelvllle. 
Chas. Lay, Treas., Steelvllle. 

Mercer County Horticultural Society— 
H. R. Wayman, Pres't, Alvord. 
J. A. Kennedy, Sec'y, Kavanna. 

Miller County Horticultural Society- 
John Vetter, Pi-es't, Eldon. 

E. M. Sumptain, Y. Pres't, Spring Garden. 
N. J. Shepherd, Sec'y, Eldon. 

J R. Ilelfrlch, Treas., Eldon. 

Missouri-Arkansas Horticultural Society— 

C. Barnard, Pres't, Thayer, Mo 

P. P. B. Ilynson, Sec'y, Mammoth Springs, 
Arkansas. 

Missouri Valley Horticultural Society- 
Homer Keed, Pres't, Kansas City. 
Edwin Taylor, V. Pres't, Kansas City. 
C. A. Chandler, Sec'y, Argentine, Kas. 
G. F. Espenlaub, Treas., Kosedale, Kas. 

Monett Local— Barry County — 
R. 1). Creed, Pres't, Monett. 
Geo. Raupp, Sec'y, Monett. 

Montgomery County Horticultural Society— 

F. Gutman, Pres't, Hugo. 

C. Hausser, Sec'y, Hugo. 

Mound City Horticultural Society— 

D. B. Browning, Pres't, Mound City. 
J. M. Hasness, Sec'y, Mound City. 



Neosho Fruit Growers and Shippers Asso- 
ciation (Newton Co.) — 
T. P. Price, l^res't, Neosho. 
R. P. Llles, V. Pres't, Neosho. 

F. H. Speakmau, Sec'y, Neosho. 
Scott Ferris, Treas., Neosho. 

Norwood Horticultural Society- 
J. W. Ilollenbeck, Pres't, Norwood. 
W. S. Calhoun, Sec'y, Norwood. 

Pettis County Fruit and Dairy Club- 
Ed. Brown, Pres't, Sedalla. 

G. B. Lamm, Sec'y, Sedalla. 

J. H. Monsees, Treas., Beamon. 

Phelps County Horticultural Society- 
Robert Merriwether, Pres't, Rolla. 
W. W. Southgate, Sec'y, Rolla. 

Pelrce City Fruit Growers Association, Law- 
rence County— 

B. L. Parker, Pres't, Pelrce City. 
J. G. Wells, V. Pres't, Pelrce City. 
R. H. Edwards, Sec'y, Pelrce City. 
J. B. Jones, Treas., Pelrce City. 

Polk County Hortcultural and Agr. Ass'n— 
G. ^V. Williams, Pres't, Ilumansvllle. 

C. M. Briggs, Sec'y, Ilumansvllle. 

A. H. Schofleld, Treas , Humansvllle. 

Polk County ( Ark.) Horticultural Society- 
A. W. St. John, Pres't, Mena, Ark. 

D. H. Hopkins, V. Pres't, Dallas, Ark. 

F. S. Foster, Sec'y, Mena, Ark. 

G. S. Graham, Treas., Dallas, Ark. 

Republic Hort. Society, Greene County— 
W. O. Wade. Pres't, Republic, 
W. E. Goodwin, V. Pres't, Republic. 
T. B. Wallace, Sec'y and Treas., Republic. 

Ripley County Horticultural Society— 
J. G. Hancock, Pres't, Doniphan. 
S. S. Hancock, Sec'y, Doniphan. 

St. Francois County Horticultural Society— 
R. C. Tucker, Pres't, Farmlngton. 
W. F. Iloey, Sec'y, Farmlngton. 

Saline County Horticultural Society- 

J. T Stewart, Pres't, Blackburn. 

Thos. Adams, Sec'y, Marshall. 
Sarcoxle Horticultural Association— 

AV. T. Burkholder, Pres't, Sarcoxle. 

John .lohnson, V. Pres't, Sarcoxle. 

J. B. Wild, Sec'y, Sarcoxle. 

H. B. Boyd, Treas., Sarcoxle. 

J. W. Haggard, Manager, Sarcoxle. 

Seligman Local— Barry County— 
G. W. Roler, Pres't, Seligman. 
H. M. Foster, Sec'y, Seligman. 

Shannon County Horticultural Society- 

C. W. Cochran, Pres't, Monteer. 

0. F. Adams, Sec'y, Monteer. 
South Mo. Fruit Growers Ass'n, Howell Co.— 

Geo. Comley, Pres't, Willow Springs. 

Mr. Lovewell, Sec'y, Willow Springs. 



COUNTY SOCIETIES. 



V6 



COUNTY SOCIETIES— Continued. 



South Rio. ilort. Ass'n, Howell County— 
D. J. N'lohols, Pres't, West Plains. 
J. W. llUt, V. I'res't, West Plains. 
J. T. Snodgrass, Sec'y and Treas., W. Plains 

Tri-County Horticultural Society- 
J. H. Holloway, Pres't, Klchland. 
S. Kellar, Sec'y, Ulchland. 

Union Horticultural Society— 
K. S. Link, Pres't, Jefferson City. 
D. A. Kobnett, V. Pres't, Columbia. 
A. J. Davis, Sec'y, Jefferson City. 

Vernon County Fruit Growers Association— 
J. D. Bowman, Pres't, Nevada. 
J. Kennedy, V. Pres't, Nevada. 
W. H. Lltson, Jr., Sec'y, Nevada. 
W. B. Smith, Treas., Nevada. 



Washburn Local— Barry County— 
II. J. Wood, Pres't, Washburn. 
G. K. Hurd, V. Pres't, Washl)urn. 
J. I). Berry hill, Sec'y, Washburn. 
J. J. Hickman, Treas., Washburn. 

Wayne County Horticultural Soclety- 
W. C. Mulherln, Pres't, Chaonla. 
John Ware, Sec'y, Wappapello. 
Jacob Fry, Treas. , Wappapello 

Wright County Horticultural Soclety- 
G. S. KUlam, Pres't, Mt. Grove. 
B. S. Snyder, V. Pres't, Mt. Grove. 
J. A, Clay, V. Pres't, Mt. Grove. 
J. P. Cawdln, V. Pres't, Mt. Grove. 
Mrs. A. Z. Moore, Sec'y, Mt. Grove. 
Mrs. C Brooker, Treas., Mt. Grove. 



SUMMER MEETING. 

Held at Springfield^ June 8, g atid lo. iSgj. 



STATE HORTICULTURAL MEETING. 

It was promised on the part of Springfield that she would do her 
part to make the summer meeting of the State Horticultural Society 
a success if the officers would give her the convention. The South- 
west is of the opinion that the contract was fulfilled to the full satis- 
faction of all participating in the the very profitable and delightful ses- 
sions. The attendance was good and the spirit was admirable. 

President Evans, as full of vigor as ever, was promptly on hand, 
and so were Secretary Goodman, Vice-Presidents N. F. Murray and 
Samuel Miller, and Treasurer Nelson. 

Springfield's two horticultural societies were well represented and 
there were many visitors from out of the county, but not so many as 
was hoped, for fruit-growers enjoy " getting together " as well as any 
other class of citizens. So those who were " not there" were missed. 

Secretary Goodman had everything in readiness to move when the 
president called the meeting to order the evening of the first day, 
June 8th. — The Southwest. 



On Tuesday, June 8, at 8 p. m,, the semi-annual meeting of the 
Missouri State Horticultural Society was called to order by President 
J. C. Evans. 

The opening prayer was made by Dr. Boude. 

Mayor Bartlett, of Spingfield, presented the address of welcome. 

ADDRESS OF WELCOME. 

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen — From time immemorial, in 
all civilized nations, husbandry has held a high and honored place ; 
today it is recognized as the highest and most important of all avo- 
cations of peace. 



SUMMER MEETING. 15 

While we pride ourselves on the diversity of our pursuits and 
their mutual helpfulness to each other, yet it is universally acknowl- 
edged that horticulture and its kindred branches are the reliance and 
support of all the rest. The politician who would curry favor poses 
as the friend of the farmer, and the protest of millions of voices from 
every section of the United States would be instantly heard were 
legislation hurtful to his interests attempted. 

The value of organized effort and the mutual helpfulness gained 
by social intercourse are coming to be recognized more each year, 
and it is for this I have the pleasure of welcoming you to our midst 
today. 

Missouri stands at the head of her sister states and even leads the 
world in some of her productions, and by your efforts she will soon 
take the lead in her yearly yield of fruits and vegetables. With par- 
donable pride we speak of the strawberry output of the Sarcoxie 
region and the Olden Fruit Farm, realizing they are but the beginning 
of the development of our wonderful resources along that line. But 
to return to you, our guests, I am glad to see so many ladies among 
you. Ever since Eve began her investigations with the forbidden 
fruit her daughters have followed in her footsteps, and brought the men 
along, too, just as Adam was anxious to share when there was some- 
thing good to eat. Floriculture is hers by an inborn right, and the 
Greeks crowned Oeres — a woman — goddess of the harvest grains. 

God ordained the Feast of the Harvest far his ancient people, and 
we do well to remember it to-day. Freely we offer you the hospitality 
of the city and its people. We are glad to have the pleasure of your 
presence in our midst. 



The response by Vice-President N. F. Murray followed. 

EESPONSE. 

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen — In response to the eloquent 
address of welcome by your worthy mayor, we desire to thank you 
for the warm and generous reception and hearty welcome you have 
given us to the beautiful " Queen City of the Southwest," and to the 
hospitality of your homes. 

Quite a number of us have been in your city on former occasions, 
but are glad to come again, knowing quite well from our past experi- 
ence that we will be royally entertained by the ever wide-awake, pro- 
gressive citizens of Springfield. 



16 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

We are thankful to the Greene County Horticultural Society for 
the invitation to meet with you at this time, and we congratulate your 
good people of Springfield and of Greene county that you have a 
strong local society doing such earnest, noble work to develop the 
fruit industry in your midst. 

Every city of any considerable size, in order to grow and prosper, 
must have one or more leading industries to give employment to its 
laborers. Located as yon are, on the summit of the Ozarks, where 
you have the pure mountain air, free from malaria, surrounded with 
mammoth springs of pure crystal water, from which your city takes 
its name, with a rich soil full of iron and other minerals, which seems 
to have been especially endowed by the Creator for growing the best 
of everything, with a city of 60,000 inhabitants, justly entitled to the 
beautiful name you have won, " Queen City of the Southwest," where 
you have the best of schools, colleges, churches and all the modern 
improvements of a great city, in the center of a great fruit section, 
where you have the best of orchards, vineyards and berry plantations, 
and that which it takes to comprehend and make the best of all these 
things, the most intelligent, energetic and best of people ; with all of 
these I am not at all surprised at the story I heard of an occuranee 
which took place some time ago at one of your camp meetings in South 
Missouri. At the close of an earnest appeal by the good parson to his 
congregation to change their way of living, he took an old gentleman 
by the hand and said: "Come, now, my brother, don't you want to 
make a start for heaven tonight ? " The old man replied : " No ! No ! 
No, sir!" "And why not, my dear brother ? Why not?" "Oh, well, 
parson, I tell you what it is : South Missouri, the land of the big red 
apple, strawberries and cream, is plenty good enough for me yet 
awhile." On one of my former trips to your city I was kindly taken 
in charge of by two of your worthy citizens for a trip to Percy cave, 
which we found not so large, but more beautiful, than the Mammoth 
cave of Kentucky. On our way out I noticed that all kinds of fruit 
trees, grain, grass and vegetables grew luxuriantly right among the 
surface rocks, the larger ones having been utilized in building stone 
fences. But a few days ago I learned that fence-building was not the 
only purpose for which the rock of Springfield is used. On going to 
a dealer to buy some lime to use in spraying, I inquired the price. He 
replied, "85 cents per barrel for Hannibal and 95 cents for Springfield, 
which is the best and (quality considered) the cheapest in the market." 
So it seems that in gathering at Springfield to hold this meeting, we 
have come to the very fountain of all good things, and the best of 



SUMMEE MEETING. 17 

everything. And now, to have things harmonize, we should have the 
best meeting our Society has held in all the 40 years of its existence. 

In order to m«ke it such we cordially invite all present to come 
and bring their friends to all the sessions of our three-days' meeting, 
encourage the fruit-growers by your presence, and help to make this 
meeting one long to be remembered for its good work and lasting in- 
fluence. 

To speak at length of our great State in general would only be to 
enlarge on what I have already said about the "Queen City of the 
Southwest;'' the best State in the Union, where we grow the best 
fruit in the world, so proven by the numerous awards and diplomas in 
our possession. Among our three million intelligent people who know 
how to live well, and who, by their experience know the beneficial ef- 
fect to health in the free use of good fruit, we find the best home mar- 
ket for our fruit of any state in the Union. They not only buy a large 
part of the product of our own orchards, but annually pay out hun- 
dreds of thousands of dollars for grapes, pears and other fruits from 
New York, Ohio and California, all of which might and ought to be 
grown within our own borders, making not only a good home market, 
but our full share of the markets of other states and foreign countries, 
and the demand for Missouri fruit increasing as the years go by. With- 
out rich, virgin soil, cheap land and superior natural advantages, no 
one may even guess to what proportions the fruit industry will grow 
to be in Missouri in the years to come. 

There is no good and valid reason why Springfield may not be- 
come a second Rochester and one of the greatest fruit centers in the 
west. The fruit product of our State now amounts to from ten to 
twenty-five million dollars annually, and is destined in a few years to 
at least double this amount. 

While much is due to individual effort in building up this great 
industry, no intelligent person who will take the trouble to review the 
fruit industry of Missouri, will fail to see that the State Horticultural 
Society has been the potent factor in developing the fruit industry of 
the State ; and has already by the improvement of wild lands, the in- 
creased wealth from the sale of fruit and by giving employment to the 
laboring class, returned many fold to the State and her people for all 
the small appropriations made on her behalf. As an instance of what 
is being done, we poiui with pride to the strawberry fields of Sarcoxie, 
where recently ten thousand pickers found employment; and to our 
numerous orchards, where in the coming fall an army of one hundred 

H— 2 



18 STATE HORTICULTUBAL SOCIETY. 

thousand will find employment in picking and handling our apple 
crop, which will run up into millions of barrels. 

We also point with pride to the School of Horticultural, which 
has been establised as a department of our State University, and the 
first of its kind ever established in the United States, where our 
young men and women may go and secure not only a book and theo- 
retical knowledge of the science of horticulture, but a thorough, prac- 
tical knowledge as well. And we trust the time is not far distant when 
we shall have horticulture taught in the common schools throughout 
the State. 

As the country grows older, our insect enemies become more num- 
merous and destructive, so much so that many become discouraged 
and are ready to give up and go into other pursuits. We think this is 
a mistake. I can think of no occupation that offers a more inviting 
field for work, or one that promises to pay better or more certainly on 
the capital and labor invested, provided both are directed by a thor- 
ough, practical knowledge of the business. 

We are not here to invite you into the pursuit of horticulture, 
promising you a life of ease and freedom from labor. The very fact 
that fruit-growing requires hard, intelligent, well-directed labor is what 
gives value to our products and makes it possible to secure from fifty 
up to five hundred dollars per acre in a single year. 

Let us then take on new courage and renew our efforts, remem- 
bering that work is God-like and God-given, and not a curse, but a 
blessing to our race. 

What this country now needs to lift it out of the ruts is more con- 
stant employment for the twin brothers of prosperity — capital and 
labor. If it were possible for us to reconstruct society so that all our 
people could find steady employment at paying wages; if we could in- 
duce the horde of worthless tramps and vagabonds that infest our 
public highways that it is vastly better to work for an honest living 
than to eke out the miserable existence they now do ; if we could per- 
suade our laboring classes who now spend their hard earned money in the 
saloon, the gateway of hell, to save the same and invest it in the cheap 
homes of Missouri ; and if we could induce the youth, the young men 
and women, many of whom are waiting for the soft snap that will never 
come, to all go to work in real earnest, embrace the golden oppor- 
tunity offered in our cheap fruit lands, secure homes and surround 
them with fruits and flowers, and with all that will exalt and embellish 
civilized life, how vastly better it would be for them, for our country 
and the world at large ! 



SUMMER MEETING. 19 

Let US remember that this world is one great workshop, in which 
each one is in duty bound to do their full share, and that in the pro- 
fession of horticulture we have no room for the idler and no time for 
the grumbler. 

In the beautiful words of Emerson, let us not forget 

"IIow nlj^li Is grandeur to our dust, 
How near Is God to man ! 
When duty whispers low, 'Thou must,' 
The youth replies, 'lean.' " 

N. F. Murray, Oregon, Mo. 



Music by the Clover-Leaf Mandolin Club. 



Secretary's Note — While it is the aim and object of our society 
to encourage the broadest and freest expressions in all our papers, re- 
ports and discussions, yet we want it distinctly understood that the 
society is in no way responsible for the statements of any one man. 
Every man is his own author and his words are his own views only. 
Location, surroundings and experiences are much varied, and you 
must be your own judge, if it is best to make them yours. 

L. A. Goodman, Secretary. 



THE WOOLY-APHIS OF THE APPLE OR THE APPLE-EOOT 

PLANT-LOUSE. 

Schizoneura lanigera (Hausm) . 
SUMMARY OF RESULTS. 

The experiments conducted by this Station during the past year 
on the wooly-aphis of the apple have given results which are briefly 
summarized as follows: 

I. The limb or aerial form of this insect can be readily killed by 
one or two thorough sprayings with strong kerosene emulsion. 

II. Apple seedliugp, buds and grafts should be planted in a small 
trench filled with finely powdered tobacco or tobacco dust and lightly 
covered with earth. This will keep the wooly-aphis away. 

III. Apple nursery stock should have a liberal supply of tobacco 
dust applied to the roots every spring in order to kill the wooly-aphis 
and prevent it from establishing itself there. It should be applied by 
removing some of the earth from around the roots, filling the excava- 
tion with tobacco dust and lightly covering it with earth. 



20 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

lY. ]!:Tewly cleared timber land should be cultivated in corn or 
other crop for two years before the apple trees are set out in order to 
kill the wooly-aphis that may be on the roots of the wild crab and 
allied trees. 

Y. Apple nursery stock should have the roots cleaned and dipped 
for a minute in strong kerosene emulsion in order to kill the wooly- 
aphis that may be there. 

YI. In planting apple trees tobacco dust should be freely used 
among and over all the roots and close around the trunk in order ta 
kill and prevent. the wooly-aphis from establishing itself there. 

YII. Every spring, as soon as settled warm weather appears,- 
each tree should have a liberal supply of tobacco dust applied to its 
roots by removing the earth from around the trunk for a distance of 
two feet and four inches in depth, evenly filling this with the tobacco 
dust and covering it with earth. 

YlIK The root form of the wooly-aphis may be cheaply and 
easily killed and kept away from an apple tree by the liberal use of 
tobacco dust. About five or six pounds of this substance should be 
applied as above directed to the roots of every infested tree, and one> 
half this amount should be applied in a similar manner each succeed- 
ing spring. Costing approximately two cents per tree per year. 

IX. This insect may also be killed by injecting one fluid ounce 
of carbon bisulphide two feet away from the trunk on two sides of the 
tree, but the use of this substance is not advised except in extreme 
cases, since a little carelessness may injure the tree, and it is always 
necessary to immediately treat the trees with tobacco dust in order to 
keep the insect away. 

GENERAL REMARKS. 

The apple-root plant-louse, or wooly-aphis, as it is called through- 
out Missouri, causes little trouble in the apple growing sections of the 
northern half of this State, but in the southern half of Missouri it is 
believed that it does more injury to the apple orchards and apple 
nursery stock than any other insect now infesting that region. Judge 
W. R. Wilkinson, a prominent orchardist and a member of the State 
Board of Agriculture and of the State Horticultural Society, states in 
the January, 1897, number of "The Southwest" of Springfield, Mis- 
souri, the following : "I consider the wooly-aphis the most destructive 
insect that the apple grower of South Missouri has to contend with, 
HUd is killing and destroying more trees in this section than all other 
causes combined." 

Since the southern half of Missouri is largely devoted to fruit in- 
terests and is now known throughout the United States as "the home 



SUMMER MEETING. 21 

of the large red apple" it at once becomes apparent that if one can 
control this pest, it will result in the saving of many thousand dollars 
each year to this State which now ranks third in the Union in its hor- 
ticultural interests, of which the apple crop is its most prominent 
feature. 

Heretofore in this State there seems to have been little attention 
given to methods of combating this insect, and few people have at- 
tempted to rid their orchards of this pest or to control and prevent its 
spread. It appears to be, however, comparatively easy to hold it in 
check and to be quite readily exterminated in a given area, as has been 
proven by the experiments herein described. ( See under Remedies.) 

In the northern and eastern portions of the United States and 
especially in Europe the form that infests the branches of the apple 
trees is the one that usually does th^ most injury, while in Missouri 
the form infesting the roots is the only one that does any injury what- 
ever, the other being only occasionally seen, and when found, occurs 
only in small, unimportant, and isolated colonies. 

INJURY, HABITS AND LIFE HISTORY. 

The wooly-aphis of the apple, ScJiizoneura lanigera, ( Hausm), is 
found in nature in two so called forms. One infests the limbs and 
twigs, while the other lives under the ground npon the roots. Ento- 
mologists designate the aerial form "wooly-louse of the apple," and 
the subterranean form "apple-root plant-louse." Some entomologists 
have described these two forms as distinct species, but at present all 
appear to be agreed that these two forms are the same species, differ- 
ing only in habits. The laboratory experiments conducted at this Sta- 
tion with this insect go to show that the root inhabiting form will, under 
certain conditions, establish colonies upon the branches or limbs and 
there thrive in a perfectly natural manner, and vice versa. 

The presence of the aerial form of the wooly-aphis is readily de- 
tected by the bluish-white cottony or downy looking substance that is 
excreted by and covers the greater part of each wingless individual 
aphis; and since these insects live in clusters or colonies, the patches 
of white matter are very conspicuous, and can scarcely escape the 
notice cf even the most casual observer. It has been my experience 
to find in nature this aerial form in Missouri only in rare cases, and 
then only in those places where some injury had caused an abrasion 
of the bark, or some limb or twig had been cut or broken off, or where 
they had been crowded from the ground up to the base of the trunk or 
on the suckers that had been allowed to grow around the tree. They 
are frequently artificially induced to attack the trunk by mulching, or 



22 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

by using wrappers around the base of the tree as a protection against 
borers and rabbits. Bat whatever may be the cause of their presence 
above the ground, the result is the same, namely : to cause an abnor- 
mal growth of the infested portion resulting in the formation of a rough 
and pitted surface, and at times cause the death of the limb at the 
point infested. However, this injury is so slight in this State that it is 
insignificant in comparison with that found in the northern and eastern 
states, and especially in Europe, where apple trees are frequently 
killed outright by this aerial form. 

The presence of the root inhabiting form is readily detected by 
removing the earth from the roots near the trunk of the infested tree. 
The appearance of a bluish-white cottony or mildew looking substance^ 
or of knotty and distorted roots will indicate its presence. It is this root 
or subterranean form that causes so much damage to the apple orchards 
in the southern half of Missouri, and to apple nursery stock through- 
out the State. The infested apple tree appears sickly ; it does not 
grow as it should ; its leaves are less numerous and they have more of 
a pale green or yellowish color than is natural: and finally the tree 
dies outright or is blown over with the- first slight wind. Such are the 
outward indications that a tree is badly infested with this pest. Some- 
times the tree blows over with a heavy wind without showing these 
outward appearances in so marked a degree, but one soon becomes 
familiar with the appearance of infested trees and can readily locate 
them before they are past recovery. In orchards, it appears that the 
great bulk of the damage from this pest comes directly from the fact 
that the trees blow over so easily, the roots breaking off close to the 
trunk. Of course this is due to the fact that the roots have decayed ; 
and I am fully convinced from actual observation that ninety-five per 
cent of the cases of so-called "root-rot" in apple trees in this State is 
in reality the result of the attack of the wooly-aphis. In nursery stock,, 
the damage comes directly from the inability to sell badly infested 
trees, and not from the death of the trees themselves. 

The wooly-aphis sucking the juices from the roots of the apple 
tree causes an abnormal growth of the attacked portion of the roots 
resulting in the formation of gall-like swellings or excrescences. These 
swellings are usually irregular and knotty in appearance and sometimes 
attain considerable size, while that portion of the roots between the 
excrescences is frequently undeveloped. 

The wooly-aphis will be found in large numbers and in clusters 
over the surface of the swellings, and especially between them in the 
numerous crevices that the larger excrescences contain. The roots 
thus attacked, distorted and swollen soon begin to decompose ; sap- 



SUMMER MEETING. 23 

rophytic fungi and bacteria enter the dead and decaying portions and 
help to hasten the work, and soon that portion of the root perishes. 
Sometimes the root seems to be killed outright by the vast number of 
aphis sucking the sap and causing the abnormal growth, so that the 
attacked portion perishes before decomposition has fairly set in. But 
in either case the aphids perish or leave the dead root and seek living 
roots upon which they can feed, and hence, when one examines a root 
that has been dead for only a short time even, the aphis may not be 
found there, and this has lead many to attribute the death of the root 
to other causes, especially to " root-rot." As the wooly-aphis attacks 
in immense numbers the main roots at or near the trunk, and as these 
roots are usually eventually killed and then rapidly decay, the tree 
loses its support and falls with the first wind. 

It is remarkable how long an apple tree will manage to live after 
its main roots have been killed by the wooly-aphis. It puts forth 
numerous small rootlets that nourish the tree enough to keep it alive 
with about half the usual number of leaves, but these rootlets are not 
sufficient to hold the tree upright. 

No variety of apple tree in Missouri appears to be exempt from 
the attack of the wooly aphis, nor does the age of the tree appear to 
make any difference. It attacks and injures alike seedlings, nursery 
stock, young and old bearing trees, but very old trees appear to with- 
stand this test much better than young ones. 

This insect is well known to all fruit-growers in Missouri, and it 
needs no scientific description. A very brief statement of its life 
history may, however, be useful. The adult insects are found in two 
forms, as can be seen by carefully examining a colony late in the sum- 
mer. One form has wings and does not excrete the downy matter, 
while the other and more numerous form has no wings and excretes 
from the pores of its abdomen the bluish-white downy of cottony mat- 
ter that covers the insect and renders it so conspicuous. If this downy 
substance be touched, it will be easily removed from the insect, which 
will immediately excrete more. 

The solitary eggs of tnis wooly-aphis may be found during the 
winter in the crevices of the bark at or near the base of the tree, where 
they are usually seen completely enveloped in the dead skin of the 
mother who lays the single egg. In the spring these eggs hatch into 
wingless, agamic females. These females then bring forth living young 
rapidly and without males — parthenogenetically. These young are 
also always wingless, agamic females. Their offspring do likewise. 
This is continued during the summer, each generation being apterous 
agamic females only. Toward the latter part of summer winged, agamic 



24 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

females are developed. In the station laboratory breeding cages 
these winged forms first appeared on the 26th of August. Some 
of the winged forms leave the infested tree and fly to other trees, 
where they establish another colony by bringing forth living young. 
Late in the fall, toward the approach of cold weather, some of the 
agamic females bring forth living, wingless and mouthless true males 
and females. These pair and the females each develop a single fertilized 
egg and perish. 

Each aphis, whether winged or wingless, is independent, and de- 
rives its nourishment by piercing the bark with its long beak or mouth- 
parts and sucking the sap below. 

In the northern part of Missouri most of the woolyaphis perish 
during the severe cold of winter, and the eggs are frequently the only 
means of continuing the species the following summer. In the south- 
ern half of the State, however, the aphids themselves are usually able 
to hibernate in large numbers, and hence it is that we find this pest so 
much more numerous in that section. One may easily verify this 
statement by examining the lower roots, near the base of the infested 
tree, during the winter. I have seen hundreds of them alive and active 
in such places every month in the year; but they appear to feed very 
little, if at all, during the winter, beginning to feed at the first approach 
of warm weather in the spring. Each hibernating aphis commences 
to bring forth living apterous, agamic females just as soon as warm 
weather is established ; and as hundreds of them may hibernate on the 
roots of a single tree, it is readily understood why this insect is so 
numerous in South Missouri. 

But in order to determine whether or not the limb form would 
spread to and infest the roots, some wooly-aphis from the limb of an 
infected tree in Jackson county were obtained and introduced June 
28, on the limbs of the young apple trees in the other two root cages* 
The trees contained no insects except those placed on the limbs. The 
root-cages were isolated in large breeding cages in the green-house. 
In the course of a week the aphids had established flourishing colo- 
nies on the branches, and at the expiration of a month they had spread 
down the trunk' in scattered and isolated places, and in one case had 
attacked the roots near the trunk. In two weeks more the roots of 
all the trees had several well-established colonies upon them. 

From these observations and facts it is believed that what little of 
the aerial or limb form of the apple tree wooly-aphis we have in this 
State is now derived from the root form. Of course, it will be under- 
stood that I do not imply by this statement that ihe original form of this 
aphis was root inhabiting, for I am decidedly of the contrary opinion. 



RUMMER MEETING. 25 



NATURAL ENEMIES. 

There are several species of iusects that are either parasitic or 
prey upon the apple tree wooly-aphis and tend to hold them in check. 
It is doubtful, however, if they are of much value as a rule in check- 
ing the root inhabiting form in this State, since they have not as yet 
been observed in nature in sufficient quantities to cause any apparent 
diminution in the number of aphis. It requires considerable search- 
ing to find them at all, although most of the forms are frequently seen., 

A minute Ohalcistly {Aphelinus mali^ Hald ) is parasitic on the 
wooly-aphis, and could if it ever appeared in sufficient numbers, 
greatly diminish the number of aphids, but no case has been observed 
where this has actually happened. This insect is so very small that it 
'will escape the notice of the ordinary observer. 

The Koot-louse Syrphus-fly [Pipiza radicutn, W & R.) is frequently 
found in the larva stage busily engaged in feeding on the root form of 
the wooly-aphis. The adult fly might be mistaken by the orchadist for 
the common house fly, but the larvae may be recognized among a 
colony of aphids by the dirty, yellow-colored, spindle-shaped body 
from one-fourth to one-half an inch in length, abruptly tapering at the 
tail end and gradually tapering at the head end, and by the transverse 
ridges encircling the whole. 

The larvae of a small Lady-bird beetle [Scymnus cervicalis) have 
been found feeding on the aphids near the surface of the ground, but 
as these larvae also excrete wooly matter which covers their backs, 
it is difficult to distinguish them from the aphids themselves. 

The larvae of the Lace-winged flies {Ckrysopd) are often found 
greedily devouring the aphids, but they, like the larvae of the lady- 
bird beetle, seem to prefer to work in the open air, and are not 
sufficiently numerous under ground to hold the aphis in check. 

Some spiders spin webs over the aerial colonies and devour the 
aphids at leisure, and it is probable that our freedom from this form 
of the wooly aphis is due largely to the spiders and parasitic and pre- 
daceous insects. 

REMEDIES. 

The experiments with remedies to kill and control the wooly-aphis 
of the apple tree were conducted in the laboratory and in the field. It 
is not necessary to discuss the laboratory methods, since the field ex- 
periments are final and were conducted in order to check and prove 
the value of those carried on in the laboratory. 

The aerial form of the wooly-aphis can be easily killed by one or 
two thorough sprayings with strong kerosene emulsion. If the aphis 



26 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

are on the trunk only, as frequently happens when the wooden wrap- 
pers are used as a protection against the attack of borers, they can be 
killed by washing the trunk with the emulsion by means of a white- 
wash brush. 

Kerosene emulsion is made as follows: Dissolve one-half pound 
of hard soap in one gallon of boiliog water. Rain or soft water should 
be used for this purpose, otherwise " break " the water by adding 
washing soda. Remove the water from the fire and add two gallons 
of kerosene. Churn this mixture for ten minutes by means of a force 
pump — pump a solid stream of the mixture back into itself. The 
liquid will assume a milky appearance, increase about one-third in bulk 
and become thick and creamy. Be sure to churn for ten minutes, oth- 
erwise the mixture may appear to be perfectly emulsified, when it is- 
not, and the kerosene will separate and rise and the material and labor 
will be lost. This emulsion should keep indefinitely in this concen- 
trated form. When it is to be used, add nineteen gallons of water to 
the above, mix thoroughly, and apply as stated. 

It is the root inhabiting form that is diflficult to manage, but it is 
believed that we can now control this pest cheaply and easily. Un- 
doubtedly the root form can be killed by saturating the ground with 
kerosene emulsion, but this is extremely troublesome, difficult, expen- 
sive, and in most localities impossible to accomplish on account of ex- 
tensive orchards and the scarcity of water; then again it is practically 
impossible to reach all the aphids under the large roots around the 
base of the tree where they are protected. Pure kerosene should 
never be used for this purpose. 

Some commercial fertilizers tend more or less to kill these aphids 
and keep them away. Salt and potash mixtures are useful in this 
respect, and where commercial fertilizers are used one will find nitrate 
of soda, kainit or muriate of potash of great value. It requires about 
ten pounds of kainit or five pounds of muriate of potash to a six-year- 
old tree, and this should be evenly distributed around the tree as far 
as the main roots extend. Judge W. R. Wilkinson, of Altenburg, Mis- 
souri, has used concentrated lye with good results so far as the trees 
themselves are concerned, and if not too expensive, this may prove of 
value. Wood ashes are also good. 

From what has been determined by actual experiments in the 
laboratory and in orchards and nurseries, it is certain that carbon 
bisulphide and especially finely powdered tobacco or tobacco dust, as 
it is called, are the two great remedies to be used against the root 
inhabiting form of the wooly-aphis. Unground tobacco stems or coarse 
tobacco will not answer; it must be finely powdered. 



SUMMER MEETING. 27 

In the case of apple seedlings and common apple nursery stock I 
should not advise the use of carbon bisulphide. Unless extremely 
cautious, there is too much danger of killing the trees. In these cases 
the young trees can be kept free from the wooly-aphis by the liberal 
use of finely powdered tobacco. Small trenches should be dug and 
filled with a liberal supply of the tobacco dust covered with a little 
earth, and the seedlings grown in these. In planting nursery apple 
grafts, buds, or small trees, farrows should also be dug and filled with 
a liberal supply of the tobacco dust covered over with a small quantity 
of earth, and the plants set in these. Then every spring, just as settled 
warm weather appears, the young trees should be treated again by 
making a furrow along each side of the rows close to the tree — say two 
inches — filling this with the tobacco dust and covering it over. Two 
boys, one to make the farrow, which can be done with a hoe nearly as 
fast as one can walk, and to cover it after the second boy has filled it 
with tobacco dust, will apply this material to several acres of nursery 
stock per day. 

The tobacco dust will leach down with every rain and more or less 
saturate the earth about the apple tree with nicotine, which will not 
only kill every aphis that may be there, but will prevent others from 
entering, and at the same time act as a strong fertilizer to the tree. 
Tobacco dust is worth what it now costs — one cent per pound — as a 
fertilizer, and is worth much more as an insecticide against the wooly- 
aphis. The Station is indebted to the Olden Nursery Company through 
the kindness of Mr. S. R. Hammond, who not only placed a badly in- 
fested field of nursery stock at our disposal, but who also greatly as- 
sisted US in the experiments. 

Since the wooly-aphis damages nursery stock and causes a finan- 
cial loss principally from the fact that the young trees that are badly 
infested have distorted, swollen and knotty roots, and are not mer- 
chantable, it is far better to prevent the aphis from ever attacking the 
trees than it is to kill them after they have caused this characteristic 
condition of the roots, for the real damage is then done and cannot be 
cured. If the trees that are being sold or put in cold storage are in- 
fested in the least — and this can be detected not only by the character 
of the roots, but also by the presence of the bluish-white downy or 
cottony matter — the roots should at once be cleaned by shaking and 
then thoroughly dipped for a minute in strong kerosene emulsion. 
This will kill the aphids; and it should be practiced not only by every 
nurseryman, but also by every person setting out apple orchards, even 
though the trees may have been so treated by the nurseryman. 



28 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Through the kindness of Judge W. R. Wilkinson, of Altenburg, 
Mo., the Station was not only enabled to make experiments with car- 
bon bisulphide and tobacco dust in his apple orchard consisting of ten- 
year-old bearing trees, but we received valuable assistance in the ex- 
periments from his personal attention, and from the help he placed at 
our disposal. 

On the 29th of June, 35 trees in his orchard that were suffering 
the most from the wooly-aphis, and some of which no doubt would 
have died soon, were selected for the following experiments: Twenty 
of these trees were treated with carbon bisulphide. This was injected 
into the ground close to the trunk of the tree by means of the injector 
to be described later. The quantity injected varied from one to three 
fluid ounces per tree, and was injected in one place on some, and in 
two and in three places on others. The result was that within a month 
every tree was either wholly or partially dead. Wherever the liquid 
carbon bisulphide came in contact with the tree, it killed that portion 
of it. Hence extreme caution should be exercised in using this sub- 
stance. Profiting by this experience, other and more extended experi- 
ments were immediately undertaken at the Olden Fruit Farm, with 
the same substance, but this time with success. These experiments 
are described later. 

The remaining 15 trees in Judge Wilkinson's orchard were treated 
with tobacco dust in the following way: The earth was removed with 
a hoe from around the trunk of a tree for a distance of two feet and 
to a depth of four to six inches. In this excavation was evenly dis- 
tributed from two and one-half to five pounds of tobacco dust, care 
being taken to place it close to the trunk also. The tobacco was then 
covered over with the earth to prevent the wind and rain from displac- 
ing it. In removing the earth from around these trees it was plainly 
seen that they were very baaly infested with the wooly-apbis. On the 
]5th of August these same trees received another equal supply of to- 
bacco dust. On the 30th of October I visited the trees in company 
with Judge Wilkinson and most carefully inspected them. Out of the 
15 trees thus treated only two were found that bad any signs of living 
wooly-aphis on the roots, and these two trees had but one small colony 
each at the surface of the ground on some small roots where the to- 
bacco had evidently not been applied close to the trunk. These two 
trees had been treated with two and one-half and three pounds of to- 
bacco dust respectively. As far down as we could well dig, the aphis 
had all been killed. None of the trees treated with the tobacco dust 
died or were injured. This orchard is on the side of a steep hill. Thus 
it will be seen that in this case very badly infested 10-year-old apple 



SUMMER MEETING. 29 

trees were freed in one season from the wooly-aphis by means of the 
tobacco dust alone. 

Through the kindess of Col. J. C. Evans and Dr. Paul Evans, we 
were enabled to conduct experiments on the wooly-aphis in the ex- 
tensive apple orchards of the Old Fruit Farm. These gentlemen also 
kindly placed at our disposal a reliable assistant, and aided the experi- 
ments in every possible manner. 

For the tobacco experiment fifteen young bearing apple trees 
that were suffering more than the others from the wooly-aphis, were 
selected. Each tree had the earth removed from around the trunk for 
a distance of two feet and about four inches deep. Tobacco dust was 
then evenly distributed in each of these excavations and covered with 
the earth. The amount of tobacco dust used was three, four and five 
pounds, each to five trees respectively. These trees were thus treated 
on the twenty-second of June ; and an equal amount was placed around 
them again on the fifteenth of August. In company with Col. J. C. 
Evans and two other gentlemen, I visited and carefully inspected these 
trees on the twenty-fourth of October. The earth was removed from the 
main roots around and under the base of the trees as far down as was 
practicable and necessary in order to ascertain the results of the ex- 
periment. In no case could a single wooly-aphis be found, not even 
under the trunk and in the sheltered places, whereas they had appeared 
in immense numbers when removing the earth to first apply the tobacco 
dust. 

When first applying the tobacco dust to some of these trees, they 
looked so sickly, and were so badly infested that the gentlemen assist- 
ing me said it would be a miracle if they did not soon die in spite of 
anything that could be done. Some of them appeared to be more 
dead than alive, but they all lived and recovered. Not a treated tree 
was lost. 

Thus it will be seen that the results of this experiment fully con- 
firm the results obtained in Judge Wilkinson's orchard. 

Having killed the trees treated with carbon bisulphide in Judge 
Wilkinson's orchard, and profiting by that experience, the following 
experiments were undertaken in a young bearing apple orchard on the 
Olden Fruit Farm : 

On the 25th of August, thirty very badly infested apple trees were 
selected, and carbon bisulphide injected into the earth at the roots of 
each of the trees by means of the injector, and in the following man- 
ner: Five trees each received one fluid ounce of the liquid injected 
one foot away from the trunk on three sides, and five other trees each 
received the same treatment, except that the liquid was injected two 



30 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

feet away from the trunk. Each of these ten trees, therefore, received 
three fluid ounces of the carbon bisulphide. Five more trees each 
received one fluid ounce of the liquid injected one foot away from the 
trunk on two sides, and five other trees each received the same treat- 
ment, except the injection was made two feet away from the trunk. 
Each of these ten trees, therefore, received two fluid ounces of carbon 
bisulphide. Still another group of five trees received one fluid ounce 
€ach injected one foot away from the trunk on only one side, and another 
ive trees each received the same treatment, except tbe injection was 
made two feet away from the trunk. Each of these ten trees, there- 
fore, received one fluid ounce of the carbon bisulphide. 

On the 24th of October these trees treated with the carbon bisul- 
phide were also inspected and examined by Col. J. C. Evans, two other 
gentlemen and myself. We could find no aphids on tbe roots of any 
of these trees, except those that were injected on one side of the 
trunk only. On all such we found living aphids on the untreated side. 
There was no apparent difference in the results between those treated 
with two or with three injections, nor between those injected one or 
two feet away from the trunk. In no case could any injury to the 
trees be observed. This being the case, I should advise one to always 
make the application two feet away from the trunk and on but two 
sides. 

The injector used was very convenient, and enabled us to place a 
known quantity of the carbon bisulphide in the earth near the roots 
without wasting the liquid and with considerable rapidity. The Mc- 
Gowen injector was merely modified to adapt it to orchard work. 

From the above experiments it is evident that there is great danger 
of injuring the trees in using carbon bisulphide unless one is careful 
to make the injection at least one and preferably two feet away from 
the trunk. However, by the use of an injector that will inject one 
fluid ounce, and by injecting two feet from the trunk on two sides of 
the tree one can readily kill the wooly-aphis and not injure the tree. 
The injection should always be made when the earth is dry. If it be 
at all wet the fumes of the carbon bisulphide will not penetrate the 
earth to any extent, but will be lost. Carbon bisulphide evaporates 
very rapidly and the fumes are heavier than the air, and in a dry soil 
they will penetrate and kill all the aphis for a considerable distance 
from the point of injection. In inserting the injector it will occasion- 
ally strike a large root just below the surface of the ground. In such 
cases remove it and make the injection to the right or left so as not 
to^allow the liquid to touch a main root. The depth to inject varies 



SUMMER MEETING. 31 

from six inches to one foot, according to the size of the tree and the 
condition of the soil. 

Carbon bisulphide can be purchased in bulk for 10 cents })er 
pound, and, if used as above directed, it will cost ll cents for the 
material to treat one tree. It must be understood, however, that the 
carbon bisulphide only kills those aphids that are there at the time 
the injection is made ; its work is done in a short time, and the fumes 
soon disappear, and there is then no reason why other colonies should 
not establish themselves on these same roots. To prevent this, one 
should apply, as above directed, about two pounds of tobacco dust 
to each tree either just before or within a few days after the injection 
of the carbon bisulphide. 

The use of the carbon bisulphide is not advised except in bearing 
orchards or in extreme cases such as where the trees are very badly 
infested and it is very desirable to kill the aphis at once. The use of 
tobacco dust is always necessary in order to prevent the aphids from 
again establishing themselves, and since this is the case, it is no more 
trouble to apply a larger quantity of tobacco dust and kill the aphis 
all with one operation. The tobacco dust works slower than the 
carbon bisulphide, but it not only kills the aphids, but it also remains 
about the tree, and prevents other colonies from forming. It costs 
from 3 to 5 cents per tree to kill the aphids by means of tobacco dust, 
but it will cost only about one-half that amount each succeeding year 
to keep them away. If we take into account the cost of the material 
and the trouble of making the injection of carbon bisulphide and the 
cost of the tobacco and trouble of applying in order to keep the aphis 
away, we shall find that the cost and trouble of applying only the 
tobacco dust in the beginning is about the same. Hence I would 
advise the use of finely powdered tobacco or tobacco dust as a means 
of killing the root inhabiting form of the wooly-aphis on apple trees, 
and would urge its use every spring as a preventive. Always apply 
the tobacco dust, as above directed, by removing the earth from 
around the trunk of the tree for a distance of 2 feet and from 4 to 
6 inches in depth, and evenly distribute the tobacco in this excava- 
tion, taking care to place it close to the trunk also, and then cover 
it with the earth. 

Judging from the experiments above described, it is believed that 
the liberal supply of tobacco dust, applied as stated, will cheaply and 
effectually kill and hold in check the wooly-aphis and prevent serious 
injury from this pest. The experiments with tobacco dust as a means 
of controlling this insect will be continued for several years by using a 



32 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

definite quantity each spring aVjout the roots of the same trees in order 
to ascertain its full value. 

In planting an apple . orchard in newly cleared timber land, it i» 
advisable to cultivate the land in some other crop, such as corn for 
two years before the apple trees are set out. This will kill the wooly- 
aphis that may be on the roots of the wild crab and allied trees, which 
would otherwise infest in great numbers and seriously injure the young 
apple trees. 

In all cases it is advisable to thoroughly drench the roots of apple 
stock in strong kerosene emulsion by placing them in the mixture for 
a minute in order to kill what aphis may be there. This should be done 
by the nurseryman when the trees are first dug, or by the orchardist just 
before planting them. While planting, each young apple tree should 
have a liberal supply of tobacco dust placed about and over the roots 
and close up to the body, and a little earth covered over this tobacco. 
Then every spring, just as soon as settled warm weather appears, each 
tree should receive a quantity of tobacco dust applied in the manner 
previously stated. The amount should be about one pound the first 
spring, and should be increased each spring until the tree receives 
about three pounds when six years old, after which the amount need 
not be increased unless found to be necessary. If the above direc- 
tions be followed, I do not think the wooly-aphis will damage an appl© 
orchard. 

The experiments above described seem to me to prove that the 
wooly-aphis infesting the roots of apple trees is as cheaply and as 
easily controlled as most other injurious insects. 

Tobacco dust can be obtained from the Hill-Settle Tobacco Co., 
of St. Louis, Mo., or from the A. B. Mayer Manufacturing Co., of St. 
Louis, Mo. Carbon bisulphide can be obtained from the manufacturer, 
Mr. E. R. Taylor, Cleveland, Ohio, for ten cents per pound, in fifty 
pound cans. 

The Station is indebted to the Kansas City, Fort Scott & Memphis 
Railroad Company for numerous courtesies and material assistance in 
conducting these experiments. 

J. M. Stedman, Entomologist, Columbia, Mo. 



Music — Piano duet — Mr. Von Troemel and Mrs. Burden. 



SUMMER MEETING. 33 



ROSE CULTURE. 

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen — "Since the day when the 
Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden and placed therin the 
pure and happy pair to tend it and to keep it, all of their off.spring 
who retain some far-off touch of that prestine purity have found a 
garden a source of infinite pleasure. 

"Nature is the material expression of God, who is spirit — and that 
most highly attenuated form of matter, or matter infused with spirit — 
which we call soul, incased in human clay, attests its kinship to Him 
the more deeply it feels its kinship to nature even in her simplest 
forms." 

From time immemorial the rose has reigned as "Queen of Flow- 
ers," and its charms have been recounted in story and in song. There 
is no flower of the field or of the garden that appeals so universally 
to the aesthetic nature of man, and none, perhaps, which repays so 
well for careful culture. 

Roses are natives of all the temperate parts of the northern hem- 
isphere and of its colder regions, even to Lapland and Hudson's Bay. 
They are the chief favorites in flower gardens for the beauty and fra- 
grance of their flowers, and more than any other flower emblems of 
everything beautiful and delightful. 

Among the ancients the rose was sacred to Cupid and Aphrodite 
or Venus, and was the emblem of joy and love, and at the same time 
of prudence. Its opening buds are a favorite poetic image of inno- 
cence and purity. 

The Hundred-Leaved rose was the variety best known to the an- 
cients. It is a native of the Caucasus and has been cultivated in 
gardens from very ancient times. Other varieties were the Provence 
or Cabbage rose, the Damask, the Dog rose, the Multiflora and a few 
others. From these few roses of early times countless varieties, both 
single and double, have been developed by the ingenuity of the florist. 
The last decade of years has been prolific in the production of varie- 
ties that eclipse anything known to our ancestors. France has taken 
the lead in producing varieties of superior excellence. It would be 
too tedious on the present occasion to enter into any detail of the 
manner of developing these new and beautiful specimens of colors, 
form and fragrance. I only offer a few practical suggestions from the 

H-3 



34 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

limited experience of an amateur to whom the cultivation of flowers 
is a source of infinite pleasure. 

I shall confine my remarks principally to the cultivation of the 
Bourbon and Tea, or everblooming roses, as they require more careful 
culture than the hardier varieties, attempting: to present the conditions 
which will insure success in this latitude. It is impossible to produce 
such magnificient specimens as are found in California and the South- 
ern states, but with the best conditions- that can be supplied, fairly 
good results may be obtained, sufficient to repay one for the time, 
strength and means invested. The first thing is to decide what we 
want, and in making a selection one must be governed somewhat by 
the amount of space and the location. 

A sheltered, sunny spot on the south side of a building or close 
fence, not too near large trees whose foliage and roots interfere with 
the growth of small, delicate plants, would be a suitable place. The 
plants may be arranged in borders or beds according to taste or con- 
venience. If there is not good natural drainage, artificial drainage 
must be supplied by removing the soil to the depth of eighteen inches, 
and filling in with broken pottery, stones and other rubbish to the 
depth of four or six inches, leaving about twelve inches for soil. 

To obtain the best results the soil should be rich, composed of 
loam, well-rotted manure, and a little sand. Having prepared the soil, 
the next consideration is to get good strong plants. Not only that; 
such varieties should be selected as will succeed in this latitude ; for 
not all perpetual roses will survive the rigor of our winters. 

It is a temptation when one goes to a green-hoase to select from 
the magnificent specimens of forced roses that the florist has, or to 
read the descriptions in the guide books, and order accordingly, never 
considering how impossible it is to supply out of doors in this climate 
the conditions of the green-house. The plants should be grown from 
cuttings, strong two or three-year-old plants. It is better to buy one 
dozen of the two-year-old than two dozen of one-year-old plants. 

There will be a better yield of blossoms, and more of the plants 
will survive the winter. Another thing to consider is whether the 
varieties are prolific. Some of the tea roses are what the fiorists call 
"shy bloomers." The plants, under right conditions, produce magnifi- 
cent roses, but they are "few and far between." The Bride and Perle 
des Jardin are examples. So these three things 'to guide one in the 
selection of plants should be considered, viz. : hardy varieties, vigor- 
ous plants, free bloomers. It is better, also, to buy plants which have 
been wintered in a cold frame, as the change to outdoor conditions 
will not be so great. 



SUMMER MEETING. 35 

Spring is the best time for transplanting from the green-house or 
•cold-frame, and not until after the 20th of April, setting the plants 
from twelve to eighteen inches apart. I prefer, as a rule, to get my 
plants from the home tiorists, so that I can select them myself, and 
then, too, the ball of earth does not have to be removed, and the 
plants are sure to live. I water freely when planting, afterward as my 
judgment dictates and according to the season. 

Like ever;^thing else in nature, this royal beauty has its enemies. 
In this climate the green aphis and the slug are the worst. The green 
aphis is easily gotten rid of by spraying with the hose or rose-watering 
pot. But the slug is harder to manage. A few applications of some 
insecticide will exterminate it, however. Several recipes are given in 
the guide books: kerosene emulsion, tobacbo solution, tobacco insec- 
ticide soap, whale oil soap and white hellebore. I prefer the white 
hellebore as being the simplest, cleanest and most pleasant to use. 
One table-spoonful of the powder to a gallon of warm water, prepared 
overnight and the plants sprayed in the morning with a rose-watering 
pot proves an effectual remedy. Generally two applications are suf- 
ficient, frequently only one is required. If the plants are kept in a 
vigorous and healthy condition they are less liable to the ravages of 
insects. I do not use any of the prepared fertilizers, but keep a com- 
post heap, on which I put leaves, rakings from the yard, manure, etc., 
stirring occasionally. I sometimes use wood ashes sparingly. It is a 
good plan to save the soap-suds from the laundry and pour around the 
roots of the plants. It helps to destroy worms and insects in the soil, 
and is also a good fertilizer. It is good for sweet peas, nasturtimus, 
asters and other plants, as well as roses. In winter I pour the suds 
on the compost heap. It is hardly necessary to say that the beds and 
borders must be kept free from weeds, watered daily during the dry 
season and the soil about the roots stirred frequently. 

Roses are very susceptible to climatic changes, and in this latitude 
are better for winter protection. Bat one must be careful not to pro- 
tect too much nor too early. Tarf makes the best covering ; but when 
that cannot be obtained, the next is to heap soil about the roots, and 
cover with leaves or straw, or both. One should discriminate in the 
use of leai^es. The leaves of the soft maple should be used sparingly, 
as the texture is so fine they decay rapidly and hold too much mois- 
ture ; they are fine for the compost heap. The hard maple and oak 
leaves are better; indeed, with the soil they afford excellent protection. 
The last of November is early enough, as a rule, to cover with leaves 
and straw. The soil may be put on earlier, and the covering should 
not be removed too early in the spring. Like winter protection, prun- 



36 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

ing must be governed by the judgment, as different varieties differ very 
much in habit and growth. When the covering is removed in the 
spring all dead and discolored wood should be cut off, and throughout 
the blooming season the blossoms should be cut with long stems and 
all weak canes cut out. When plants fail to mature the buds, like the 
Etoile de Lyon, it is a good plan to remove a number of the undevel- 
oped and imperfect buds and prune severely. As climbing roses pro- 
duce their flowers on the old wood, none but the dead and weak canes 
should be cut out. It may be well after blooming to shorten some of 
the canes, however. 

A few general remarks, and I will close. It does not follow that 
roses which are good for forcing in a green-house are good bedders ; 
the reverse is more often the case. It is wiser, therefore, and more 
satisfactory to select such as will thrive under the conditions that can 
be given out of doors, although they may not be quite so handsome. 
It is a good plan, also, to duplicate the best varieties. Half a dozen 
of a kind would not be too many, if it is a highly satisfactory variety. 

Do not put hybrid roses and tea roses in the same bed if it can 
be avoided. The hybrids are so vigorous that they are apt to absorb 
too much of the nutritious qualities of the soil, and besides, they do 
not look so well. It is better to make a hedge of the hybrids. 

Added to Lhese suggestions, "eternal vigilance" is the price of 
success with this "Queen" of the garden. 

A list of such roses as I have been most successful with. A num- 
ber of the plants I have had for 5, 7 and 10 years : 

Marie Van Houtte, Francisca Kruger, Safrano, La Pactole, Mad. 
de Watteville, Bridesmaid, Countess la Barth, or Duchess de Brabant, 
Bon Silene, La France, Etoile de Lyon, Marie Guillott, The Queen, 
Clothilda Soupert, Souvenir D'nn Amie, Lefctie Coles, Hermosa, Mal- 
maison. Mrs. J. M. Holland, Springfield, Mo. 



Mr. Geo. H. Van Houten of Des Moines, la., gave a splendid in- 
teresting talk on the fruits and flowers of Oriental lands. 



SUMMER MEETING. 37 



Wednesday, June n — 9 a. m. 

Opening prayer, Rev. John Brereton. 
Announcement of committees. 

committees. 
Flowers — J. C. Whitten, W. H. Barnes, Mrs. J. L. Holland. 
Finance — S. W. Gilbert, N. F. Murray, J. T. Snodgrass. 
Obituary — A. Nelson, Geo. W. Hopkins, 0. Howard. 
Final Kesolutions — G. T. Tippin, F. H. Speakman, J. M. Stedman. 

INTRODUCTION OF DELEGATES. 

Glen WOOD, Ia. , May 27, 1897. 
To the Missouri State Horticultural Society, Meeting at Springfield, Mo. : 

Gentlemen— This will introduce to you Mr. Geo. H. Van Houten, as delegate from the 
Towa State Horticultural Society. Respectfully, 

F. M. Powell, President. 

Mr. Van Houten was eloquent in his praise of Missouri's resources, 
saying that no state in the Union surpassed it in fertility of soil, range 
of products and purity of climate. A Chinese wall built around the 
entire State would leave Missourians still in possession of all the 
necessaries of life with the material resources for a vast empire of 
wealth and civilization. The speaker was born in the noble State and 
never failed to resent ridicule aimed at Missouri. 

The following delegates, Mr. W. H. Barnes, Secretary of the Kan- 
sas State Horticultural Society, and Mr. Bill of Benton county, Ark., 
were then introduced by the President to the members of the Society 
and invited to take part in all the proceedings. 



VARIETIES OF STRAWBERRIES. 

Mr. Chairman — I see you have me on the programme for a paper on 
•^'Varietes of Strawberries." I regret I did not communicate with Secre- 
tary Goodman at once, and have the subject assigned to some one 
more competent. 

My limited education forbids my attempting this task, and it is re- 
ally a trespass on the educated of this great State. 

The varieties of strawberries are hundreds, bat as a rule, only a 
few are adapted to all the different soils and locations of this State. 

What I shall say will apply entirely to my own locality and to the 
Tarieties I have had success with. 

The best variety for any one to plant is the one your neighbor 
across the lane has made a success. Then try as many other varieties 
as you care to in a small way. 



38 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

I have planted a good many varieties, and now have several new- 
ones which I am testing. 

The varieties that we do best with are as follows : The Creeent, 
polanized with Downing ; Jessie, Mitchell and others. Sharpless, 
Perfect, Biibach Ko. 5, polanized with Jessie, Captain Jack, Vandeman 
and others ; Warfleld polanized with Captain Jack, Vandeman, Jessie 
and others, and Bedarwood. The Gandy is the best late berry. The 
Cresent is a rank grower, a good bearer, and the first few pickings are 
large, fine berries, but the last are too small to ship for profit, so I 
have discarded it. The Bubach is an abundant bearer of large and 
fine berries through the season, and it is a medium good shipper. The 
Jessie is irregular in size and ripens irregularly ; (will discard it.) 
Captain Jack, Vandeman, Bedarwood and some others are used only^ 
for polanizers. The Warfield is the best thus far — good size, dark 
color, glassy and firm, heavy bearer and the best shipper. The Gandy 
is the best late berry, and is large, of good shape, a strong plant and a 
good bearer. The new varieties I will pass. 

Mr. Chairman, this is all I have to say about varieties in this paper.. 
1 will give some of my experience and present a plan of growing the 
strawberry. 

How I cultivate and manage the strawberry. I cultivate the land 
thoroughly the year before planting; spread manure over the land in 
the winter, 15 loads to the acre. I have plowed the present crop three 
times and harrowed up to March 15, 1897. Marked it off 4x4j feet 
with a small plow and set plants at the crosses. I plow to June 1st 
once each week, then hoe and take off all runners and the blooms that 
have been missed; will continue to plow both ways (deep) until the 
runners begin to set freely, which will be about June 20. Will hoe 
and layer the runners ; allow six and not over eight from each mother 
plant. Layer the runners from the young plants until they almost 
come together in the rows and layer each way of the rows to 20inches> 
making the row 40 inches and leaving a passway 14 inches. The lay- 
ers are placed from 6 to 10 inches apart, average 8 inches apart all 
over the rows. Then allow no more runners to set, all others should 
be taken off; hoe frequent1.y, keep down the weeds and grass and cut 
oflf the runners; keep the plow going regularly as long as the runners, 
are not in the way until about frost. In the winter mulch with straw 
free from seeds. That used for bedding the stock in the barn is best. 

I have grown berries successfully in this way and expect to have 
these five acres correct. The commercial berry-growers will readily 
see the object of my plan. My plants will be large, have plenty of 
room ; will produce a heavy crop of large, fine berries that will sell on 



SUMMER MEETING. 39 

any market. Let everybody figure and see the result: About 2,500 
hills to the acre ( say 2,000 to the acre), about 25 plants to the hill, 
making 50,000 plants to the acre. Each of these plants will give one 
large berry per day for 20 days (say 10 days), making 50,000 berries 
per day, 25 large berries per box, say 50 berries per box. This gives 
1,000 boxes daily, or 40 crates for 10 days, or 400 crates for 10 days' 
picking from one acre, net $1 per crate, $400. 

What is the use to plant 1,000 acres, as Sarcoxie has done, to re- 
alize $100,000 and then get beat in prices in all the markets by all the 
small growers. 

Just plant 250 acres, as Exeter has done, and make $400 per acre 
and get the $100,000 and be at the top of the market, with customers 
everywhere wanting our berries. 

G. G. James, Exeter, Mo. 



STRAWBERRIES. 

I have been growing berries in a small way for several years. 
Last spring I planted about one acre, or perhaps a little less, about 
half Bubachs and Haveland, with Bedarwood, Downing and Jacks for 
perfect bloom. Now, as I have always held that a perfect mechanical 
condition of the soil was better than much manure, I cultivated them 
until I almost felt like the soil was good to eat. 

This land had been in cultivation 30 years, and to my certain 
knowledge has never had one shovelful of any kind of manure put on 
it, or has it ever been in grass. I made my mated rows about 18 
inches wide and covered them lightly with straw about a week before 
Christmas. Most of them came through the straw without moving it. 
The Haverlands showed the most excessive case of over-bearing that 
I have ever seen, running from 25 to 150 to the plant, so I 
thought they would be a failure sure; but when the bloom was at its 
best we had three or four of the finest days for fertilizing I have ever 
seen ; so they set the most perfect crop of fruit I have ever seen; so 
I went to work and mulched a part of them with short straw and 
chaff from an old stack near by. Result, as far as mulched, they per- 
fected almost every berry, and second and third pick ran about 30 to 
the box, some of them 14 to the box and many 17 to 20. Now, if I 
ever live to have another patch I will mulch them if I have to go 20 
miles after material to do it with. 

Now, don't some one jump at a conclusion and mulch any kind of 
land too early and cause the loss of his crop, for we had a rain here 
that the water was 5 inches deep on part of my patch after the first 



40 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

picking, so you see where I would have been if my land had not been 
well drained ; but the water was all gone in 20 minutes after it quit 
raining. Well, I see I can't cover what I was aiming at by writing, so 
will let up. 

Capt. Jack nearly a failnre ; also Bedarwood ; Downing, big crop, 
Crescent, big yield, but went down with wet, mnggy weather; lost 
most of them ; Bnbachs only set about half crop, owing to big rain 
when bloom was best; some very fine berries and lots of button. 
They would have been immense if they had bloomed with Haverland, 
but they were about four days later and caught the big rain. Michael 
bore the largest crop I have seen on it. Of all the berries on my land 
Haverland is worth them all; although it looks tender, it carries and 
holds its color better than anything I've seen, except Bidwell, and it is 
a very poor bearer with me. We have a bona fide trade of several hun- 
dred dollars with the better class of Plattsburg, and they want Haver- 
lands first, last and all the time. Well, my experience is that plenty 
of plants, well distributed, are much better than extra heavy slants. 
We picked about 7,000 quarts off of a little over an acre, and about 
one-third of them were Haverlands, although there was less than one- 
fourth Haverland plants. Have Timbril, Brandywine, Parker, Earl 
and Greenville planted for next year. The apple crop will be very 
light here. Peaches are falling badly since the weather became so 
hot. Grapes look well. Blackberries and raspberries are immense as 

far as I have heard. 

G. T. Odor, Holt, Clay county. Mo. 



PLANTING— CULTURE— YARIETIES OF STRAWBERRIES. 

In presenting this paper before this body of berrj^-growers I en- 
ter the field with the expectation of some criticism by those who have 
had more experience in this calling than I have. But I must say with 
some degree of pride that after twelve years' growing of berries, and 
at the same time cultivating an experimental ground in a small way, I 
feel like I may be heard with the rest of those who have devoted their 
time and energy in the growing and improving of this the best of all 
berries. But I cannot say that it has all been smooth sailing — "nay, 
verily." I have had many disappointments, and have learned more by 
my failures than by the success I have ever had, and if we berry- 
growers would write and talk more of our failures than we do, we 
would keep many an anxious novice from stranding on the "sand-bar" 
that we run aground on. Experiments are sometimes expensive be- 



SUMMER MEETING. 41 

sides the annoyance of being: disappointed. I can call back to mind 
many instances of such disappointments, one in which I paid a tree 
agent $3 for 100 blackberry plants and cultivated them three years and 
gave a darky 50 cents to dig them up and throw them over the fence. 
They were wild ones. So much for that agent. I have paid as high as 
50 cents each for strawberry plants and after cultivating them two or 
three seasons plow them under for fertilizer, and some of them have 
been of so poor a quality that I doubt if they made good fertilizer. 

The strawberry has its peculiar notions "same as uder beople," 
and in its cultivation, soil and climate has much to do with its thorough 
development. A variety that do well on one kind of soil may prove 
worthless on a different soil, even with the same kind of treatment. It 
is an old maxim among strawberry growers than any soil that will pro- 
duce a good corn crop will raise a fair crop of berries, and perhaps 
this will hold good with certain varieties and in the hands of an ex- 
pert, but I find much good corn land that is not naturally adapted to 
strawberry culture, and berries can only be made to grow by artificially 
bringing the soil to that point of fertility that they require. I have 
seen corn grow tine on what is called wet bottom land. While every 
strawberry grower of experience knows that the strawberry plant can- 
not stand wet feet and be healthy. The best soil for strawberries is a 
high, dry, timber land, and the higher the better, provided the soil is deep 
and rich ; if not rich, make it so by a liberal application of well-rotted 
barnyard manure. To get best results I should the year before setting 
plant the ground to some hoed crop that it might be kept tree from weeds. 
In early fall plow the ground with a turning plow, breaking it much 
deeper than if preparing it for corn — that is, if the deep plowing did not 
turn uprtoo much sub-soil ; if it did, do not plow so deep, but follow each 
furrow of the turning plow with a large single shovel, running it in the 
bottom of the furrow left by the turning plow and run it as deep as a 
good, strong horse could pull it; this breaks up the hard pan under 
the soil and forms a kind of under drainage without throwing the sub- 
soil on top. Cover the surface with manure and leave until spring. In 
spring rebreak, turning the manure well under, pulverizing the soil 
thoroughly. Set in rows four feet apart, with plants about two feet 
in the row. Plants should not be set until bloom buds begin to show 
or the first blooms to open, which should be pinched off, for if left to 
fruit the plant exhausts itself trying to ripen its fruit. 

All plants should be taken from rows of the previous year's setting 
which have not been allowed to fruit. It is a mistake that many people 
make in taking plants from old beds that have borne one or more crops, 
as in the bearing and ripening of the fruit the plant becomes partly 



42 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

exhausted, loosing much of its vitality and the young plants from sucb 
parents, having a poor stock to draw from, are dwarfed and as a result 
the fruit in turn is dwarfed or of inferior size and quality. A succes- 
sion for a number of years of taking plants from wornout beds will 
run them out until they will be worthless. This accounts for the com- 
plaint we often hear of: "Well, I set a new patch, but it don't bear 
like the old one did when I first set it." No; and if they will set ji 
third patch from the second, after it has borne two or three crops, 
they will notice that they are not quite so good as the second and not 
near so good as the first. 

As most all berry growers, and I believe all nurserymen advo- 
cate the setting plants as early in spring as the ground will do to work, 
perhaps I might right here give the reason this should not be done, 
and why we should wait until we can easily pinch out the bloom at the 
time of setting. That we may be understood, let us suppose that 
plants are capable of reasoning. When it wakes up in the spring, after 
its long winter nap, it starts out with the idea of trying to reproduce 
itself through its seed in the berry, it takes in the situation and sees 
that it has a firm footing, well rooted and at once begins to push its 
bloom above the ground and to open to catch the kiss of the morning 
sun, that it may be cherished and ripened, the seed fall to mother earth,, 
catch and in turn produce a counterpart. Take up this plant, just as 
it has awakened, set it out and that same idea is in its little head, pay 
ing no attention to its footing, and by the time the bloom is where you 
can get it off hand, its poor little feet have grown weak, and it stands 
trembling in its new shoes, but let it stand in its old shoes until this 
time, then put it in a new pair, pinch out its bloom, and you have at 
once changed its whole pians. The next best thing it can »io is to 
plant its feet firmly in the soil and try to reproduce itself by sending 
out runners and producing plants direct. The result is fewer plants 
die and a better growth in the early part of the season. 

I believe that all understand that plants must be kept well culti- 
vated, that no weeds or grass must be allowed to grow, and that it 
takes frequent and thorough stirring of the soil to keep them back, for 
if neglected for a time when plants are setting, the work become tedi- 
ous and laborious, aa the runner extends from the new to the parent 
plants. This brings us to the point of cutting the runners, and although 
I almost stand alone, let me enter my protest against early cutting. 
Let the early runners grow and set plants until, if cultivated in mat- 
ted row, the row is thick enough, or, if under the hill system, the hill 
is full enough, then cut off all after runners the balance of the season.. 



SUMMER MEETING. 43 

Rtiferring back to the reason faculties of the plant, we let it go on 
trjiog to reproduce itself by making plants until it has made all we 
want; then we again change its plaos by heading it off in the cutting 
of the runners, which throws it back to its first idea of making seed, 
when it at once sets about to do it ; but it reasons that the season is 
too far gone to ripen its seed and it can only prepare itself for next 
season by getting the fruit buds as near perfect as possible before 
going into its winter quarters. So by letting the early runners take 
root and cut the late ones all the plants are strong and have the crown 
well rounded, which means berries the next season. 

As to varieties, I had intended to say something, but as we nearly 
all have our favorites and differ so much in our choice — perhaps on 
account of our diversity of soil — that I can only say what does best 
with me. 

After testing perhaps a half hundred varieties I am now cultivat- 
ing only the following: \¥arfleld, Cresent, Lady Rusk and Bubach 
as pistilates, while for staminates I use the Sharpless, Mitchell and 
Gandy, though the Gandy is a very poor fertilizer. My preference is 
in the order named. I place the Warfieid at the head of the list, with 
Bubach at the foot, for an all-purpose berry. The Gandy is a reason- 
able bearer when cultivated in hills, but it will not do to crowd it in 
matted row. It is a large late berry, of very firm texture, which makes 
it carry well for shipping long distances. The burr is large and coarse, 
holding them well apart, keeping them from bruising in the box, thus 
looking well at the end of their journey. The Mitchell is only fit for 
a fertilizer, as it bears too few berries of a very soft flesh, only fit for 
home use. I consider it the most overestimated berry in cultivation, 
one in which the novice is sure to be disappointed, and even as a fer- 
tilizer it is much inferior to the Sharpless, the latter being a much 
stronger staminate, sending up its pollen loaded, large blooms well 
above its foliage, enabling it to scatter or float its pollen without any 
interference of its own leaves. In getting plants to set, get them as 
close home as possible and don't forget the importance of getting^ 
plants from beds that have never borne berries, and above all avoid 
buying strawberry plants from fruit tree agents. 

G. W. Williams, Humansville, Mo. 



DISCUSSION ON STRAWBERRIES, 

By Mr. Williams — In regard to brother James' paper on strawber-^ 
ries, and that point in regard to the Crescent seedling running down at 
the end of the season, now, I want to say that my experience has been 



4i STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

that, if it is fertilized with the Sharpless, it will hold np until the end 
of the season. The blooms on the Orescent are not good fertilizers. 
and do not do well with any but the Sharpless, and I have tried many 
varieties. The blooms of the Sharpless are strong and full of pollen, 
and my experience has been that the Crescent seedling, if fertilized 
with the Sharpless, will bear up well through the entire season, and 
they do not get too small with me for shipping. I have only one fer- 
tilizer, and that is the Sharpless. 

By Mr. Hopkins — I agree with Brother Williams' paper in almost 
every particular, except in regard to the fertilizer ; I do not know what 
the Sharpless may do with him, but with me it is a shy bearer, and 1 
cannot get a berry out of it ; I have tried it for two or three years, 
and if it did not get killed in the bloom it would almost always blast. 
I would like to ask Mr. Williams if he is sure that he is using the 
Sharpless ! My experience is that it blooms early, but does net bloom 
long. It certainly is not characteristic of the Sharpless, so far as I 
have any knowledge of it. It is a good berry, the quality is unsur- 
passed, but I never heard of it being used as a fertilizer before, and 
the gentleman may have something else, although he may know what 
he is doing. I endorse the paper in almost every particular, and in 
regard to the subsoiling, I think that is one of the most essential 
points I have ever had any experience with in strawberry culture ; I 
have for the last two years, and shall continue to practice subsoiling, 
it doesn't make any difference whether it is a dry season or a wet 
season, subsoiling seems to have a good effect. If it is an excessively 
wet season subsoiling seems to give a good under drainage, and I can 
tell the difference between the berries of those that are subsoiled and 
those that are nof, the berries are firmer and hold up better ; and in a 
drouth it is the same way ; we all know it is good for a wet season, 
and I believe it is just as good for a dry one. 

Now, in regard to the other paper that was read by the gentleman 
from Exeter, it sounds as if it was from a way back there : now when 
it comes to using Downing and such as that for fertilizer, it seems a 
long way back. The gentleman made some very large calculations but 
I am very much afraid it may turn out like Brother Freeman, he origi- 
nated a new strawberry, and the way he figured, it would yield sixty- 
four thousand quarts a day. 

By Mr. Williams — In regard to the Sharpless, I cannot say posi- 
tively that I have got it, and I very much doubt if there is any gentle- 
man here who could say he has got anything unless he originated the 
berry himself. My original stock of berries that I call the Sharpless, 
I sent to Ferry, Detroit, for them fourteen years ago. In patronizing 



SUMMER MEETING. 45 

Mr. Ferry for our garden seed I noticed in his catalogue some straw- 
berries mentioned. I sent for fifty plants called the Sharpless and 
that is what I am cultivatiug today. I agree with the brother who 
has just left the floor that the Sharpless is a shy bearer, but I believe 
today bears the sweetest berry in cultivation, at least my folks down 
at my house whenever they want to make a short cake or an extra 
good pie for a visiting neighbor, they always hunt out the Sharpless 
berries to make it, but it is a shy bearer and as I remarked in my 
paper I believe the same berries bear different on different ground, 
even under the same kind of treatment. Now, on my own place I find 
that certain varieties of berries will do better on one soil than another 
under the same kind of treatment exactly, and as Mr. James said the 
very best way for a novice to do is to try to get plants near home, 
where the soil is as nearly alike as possible. 

' As to my berry being a Sharpless 1 cannot tell whether it is or 
not, but it is a berry I got 12 or 14 years ago from Ferry, which he 
had listed as a Sharpless. 

By Mr. Hilton — Regarding the Sharpless, it is an easy matter to 
know the Sharpless; it is different from almost any other berry I ever 
saw. I have raised them now for about seven years ; mine came from 
Jud (or Judson) Summit, Arkansas, and there were about a hundred 
and twenty-five fruit-growers agreed that this was the Sharpless. 

It is an easy berry to tell from any other ; a shy bearer but a large 
berry and a good fertilizer. I have grown them when they would be 
almost from two to three inches in diameter ; when you get a perfect 
berry, they are long and ripen first from the cap ; the point of the 
berry will be the last to ripen, and sometimes they will rot before they 
get ripe if it is a very wet season and if they lay on the ground ; some- 
times the tip of the berry will rot before it ripens if they lay on the 
ground, but this has not been the case with me, for we have such 
stony ground they lay on the stone and don't rot. The Sharpless has 
a very thick heavy foliage, not a very dark green, while the Bubach 
has a great deal the same kind of foliage, but a darker green, and the 
stem that holds the berry is pretty long and holds up pretty well ex- 
cept when they get pretty heavy. I can tell the Sharpless wherever I 
see it. I have seen men who call the Dunn the Sharpless. I went to 
a man's place not long ago, and he was telling me that his Sharpless 
did not do well, and I told him he didn't have the Sharpless, and he 
said, "well, I bought them for the Sharpless, picked them for that and 
sold them for that," and in going through the patch we found a few of 
the berries; they were small and inferior, and I asked him if they had 



46 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

a perfect bloom, and he said he didn't know whether they did or not, 
as he never paid much attention to the bloom. 

The best fertilizer I have found for the Crescent is the Mitchell's 
Early ; some will hoot at the idea of a Mitchell's Early for a fertilizer, 
but I have made more money out of the Mitchell's Early than any 
berry I ever worked with. About four years ago I planted two acres 
and a half, and I was short of plants. I went into a patch that was 
Mitchell's Early, Cresent and Sharpless ; they had been planted in 
rows, but were matted pretty well together, and we put out about two 
and one-fourth acres of them, and we got them mixed ; it was an average 
of about four Mitchell's Early and one Cresent and now and then a 
Sharpless. We put them out just as we took them up, and after we 
got all the Mitchell's Early planted we had not quite enough, so we 
got the Crescent and planted four rows across the field ; where I 
planted one Cresent to about four Mitchell's Early they begun to bear 
the next >ear, and I found that those Mitchell's Early were the best 
Mitchell's Early I ever picked, and I had been using them three or 
four years before that ; then it was about a week until the Crescent 
begun to ripen ; just as the Mitchell's Early commenced to go down 
the Crescent came in and kept up my picking, and in the same patch 
we kept our picking up for about four weeks, and I had the best 
Crescents I ever saw, and at the end of the picking, about four weeks, 
I found a great many blooms on the Mitchell Early vines at that time 
and now and then that had been picked off of for four weeks, and they 
were as large as a hickory nut, and I did not find a blighted berry 
among the Crescent, and I did not find any of the Mitchell's Early 
that were imperfect, and I believe the Cresent is one of the best berries 
we have, if it is properly fertilized, and the Mitchell's Early is one of 
the best fertilizers I ever tried, and I have seen them bloom every 
month in the year except January. That is, of course, in a wet year. 
I like the plan of mixing them up all over the field promiscuously. If 
I want the most Cresent, I would put about two-thirds Cresent and 
one-third Mitchell's Early for a good crop ; I have taken men in there 
just to see my Crescents ; they would be terribly opposed to Crescents, 
and I would take them in just to show my large, fine Crescents. We 
commenced to pick about the 20th of April the Mitchell's Early, and it 
was about the first of May before we begun on the Crescent, and for 
four weeks we picked right there in that patch, and I do not know that 
I have seen an imperfect Crescent this season. 

By Mr. Gilbert — I do not live very far from Mr. H. but I cannot 
grow Mitchell's Early; I have tried for two years and I believe if anyone 
wants to go into bankruptcy they ought to plant Mitchell's Early. 



SUMMER MEETING. 47 

From the experience I have had I believe if I confine myself to about 
three varieties I will make more money out of them ; the berries that 
have made me the most mone^' are the Houston Gem, Greenville 
fertilized with the Comet. The Comet is a berry originated by Mr. 
Speakman, of Carthage. I think the Greenville is the best for an all 
around berry. The Houston Gem is earlier, almost as early as the 
Mitchell's Early, I don't think there is more than four or five days dif- 
ference between them, and the Houston Gem will bear about twenty 
times as many berries as the Mitchell's Early and will ship just as well. 
They are not a very smooth berry, especially the first ones are a little 
rough, and have the appearance of being quite rough, but that may be 
caused by not having a fertilizer with them that blooms when the first 
blooms of the Houston Gems come out. 

What is the matter with your Parker Earle ? Mr. G. I cannot get 
any berries ; I have plants this year with from three to four hundred 
blooms on a single plant and I wouldn't get a dish of good berries from 
the plant. Some years the Parker Earle does splendid but it is an 
uncertain plant to grow in South Missouri, at least on my place. The 
Jessie will give some fine berries but not enough of them. I have 
tested in the last five or six years I suppose a hundred or more dif- 
ferent varieties. Our friend Williams in his paper advocates not set- 
ting the plants in the spring until after the bloom appears, and to pinch 
the bloom buds out before you set the plants. My experience has been 
that early planting gives the best results. If we have a little dry spell 
about the time the berries are blooming and the plants are set out then, 
you are apt to lose a good many plants, and if they are set early in the 
season there is very little danger of losing any of them. 

If we were to undertake in Southern Missouri — and I did under- 
take it for two years — to let the first runners remain and form plants 
and make those plants 6 inches apart, set them out in rows and then 
keep all the late runners off, I don't think that work can be done for 
less than $100 to $125 per acre, and at the present low price of straw- 
berries I do not think it would pay commercially. I shall in the future 
keep all the runners off until quite late in the season, say the latter 
part of July, and then let the plants make runners and form a matted 
row. In treating them in this way and setting the rows 2? feet apart, 
and when the soil becomes hard or beaten to use a cultivator to loosen 
the soil, I believe we can raise the berries cheaper than any other way 
I ever tried. The Charles Downing and Captain Jack are neither of 
any value to use in Southern Missouri. 

By Mr. Tippin — To take the papers as they come I want to refer 
especially to the matter of runners, and wish to call attention of all 



48 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

strawberry-growers that with the advice of the gentlemen must be 
taken into consideration the locality. It is true that Mr. Gilbert's 
home may have a month to six weeks, some times two months, longer 
season than we have on top of the mountains, and no doubt he will be 
troubled with an excess of runners, but I am satisfied that the best 
way to do in Greene county is to let the old runners stay. Last year 
was my first year to grow for fruit, and my advice was to cut off the 
first runners, but I did not obey that, and I don't believe there is a 
grower in Greene county that will claim they had a better plant patch 
than I have. As to varieties, I have just spent a month in the market 
in the northwest, in St. Paul, and while I am very sorry that I have 
not got any of my own, I am forced to say that the Warfield is the 
shipping berry. I have no Warfields planted and am very sorry. The 
Warfield is one of the best carriers, and while not the largest is one 
of the best colored and is the first berry they ask for when you go on 
the market — have you got any Warfield ? The Gandy is the best late 
berry and best late carrier. Of course the Orescent is a good carrier 
but is too small as a rule. Our Sarcoxie friends are in the berry busi- 
ness and in the market and have largely Warfields. and that is why 
they beat us. The Bubach grown in Greene county is the finest 1 
think grown in any market, the finest I saw from any section of the 
country. It is not a good carrier; it is all right for sale on the home 
market, but it does not ship well ; it bleaches in some way and assumes 
an appearance of softness. 

When we have solved the problem of the best fruit to grow, the 
best way to grow it and the best manner of shipping it, we are hardly 
half way through. When we have done all this we are not half way 
over the bridge, the matter of distribution and marketing are ques- 
tions yet to be solved, and we shall have to make a wonderful advance- 
ment in the matter of distribution between now and next year in view 
of the fact of the increased acreage. Southern Missouri, Arkansas^ 
the Hood river country and the Illinois section next year will overrun 
itself in view of the fact that the acreage in these sections will be 
nearly double ; something will have to be done or our berries might as 
well rot in the field. It will be necessary to establish a grade ; we 
will be forced to establish a grade for our strawberries and strawber- 
ries under a certain size must not be shipped ; just to illustrate the 
way sections of country come in different — ^just as one section is go- 
ing out of the market another section comes in. This section is going 
out, the last picking runs very small, yet they ship by car-load lots, 
that overruns the market just as the choice berries of another section 
are coming in, that ruins the prices of those berries and destroys the 



SUMMER MEETING. 49 

market, but if we can establish a grade and enforce it we will make 
more money and all be treated fair and all alike. 

By Mr. Murray — I think the papers on this subject were excellent 
and the discussions also were good. I want to emphasize a point or two 
about growing strawberries, and oae thing is to prepare the land a year 
before planting, and then in fertilizing and in using barnyard manure 
it, should be composted to avoid getting your land covered with clover 
seed. I believe in subsoiling, or where the subsoil is deep and should 
not be turned up, then loosen it and let it lay. Land for strawberries 
should be nearly level and free from water, and should be where water 
don't have to pass over it, and then high land is free from white frost. 
I have found that an advantage is derived from mixing varieties 
closely. I have alternated the plants in the rows, every other one a 
different variety, and in that bed so far I have not found an imperfect 
berry. The Crescents are holding up tine. The Mitchell's Early was 
spoken of, and I want to say that in Holt county, in the deep black 
loam it is not worth anything at all. I stopped down at Olden and I 
found that where they have that fine red clay and more or less rocks, 
that the Mitchell's Early did well. Then I planted some Mitchell's 
Eirly on some hilly land, somewhat yellow, and this year 1 picked 
some fine berries. I picked the first ones about the 18th of May; 
that shows the difference in the time of ripening. 

There is one other point I wish to speak of, and that is in regard 
to mulching and covering strawberries, and I will say in putting on 
the mulch always be careful to get straw' or whatever you use free 
from weeds. If your land is free from weeds one year and then you 
take care and don't put on anything with weed-seed, you will find it 
much better, and then you can make part of your plants two or three 
weeks later by not uncovering at the same time. I tried it with ber- 
ries mulched and berries not mulched, and the berries not mulched 
were from a week to two weeks earlier than those that were mulched. 

Now in regard to the Warfield, I agree with nearly ever.y thing 
that has been said this morning; the Warfield is a great favorite of 
mine. Some one spoke of the advantage of high, dry ground. We 
must not forget that strawberries need to be set well with water, and 
yet they will not stand in wet land, but land that is well drained. 

I cannot agree with Mr. Murray about mixing up his fer- 
tilizers in the rows. It may do in a home patch, but when it comes to 
picking berries for shipping, we don't want everything mixed up in the 
same box ; it won't do for market. We want straight goods ; if we 
want a box of one kind we want it all that kind. It is just like out in 
H — 4 



50 STATE HOETICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

the orchard and mixing all kinds of apples, and as sure as you mix 
them in the patch the pickers will mix them in the boxes. 

la regard to Mitchell's Early, I am sure we would all have been 
in the poor-hou^e if we had raised Mitchell's Early. Of all the varie- 
ties I ever tried that has been the most worthless. Capt. Jack is a 
good fertilizer. I will say that I am using Capt. Jack and Eobinson, 
and this year I have not marketed any of but the Bubach. 

Mr. Tippin struck the key note when he said we must drive out 
these small berries ; the market now demands everywhere a good- 
sized firm berry, and the people must have it, and these people who 
have gone into the business and raise this little trashy stuff, and 
handle it in a trashy manner, will be driven out of business sooner or 
later, and the sooner the better. 

By Mr. Van Houten — Some have referred to subsoiling or soil- 
lifting or loosening. I think those of you who are interested will find 
something illustrated in volume 31 of Iowa Reporter that will prove of 
interest to you, and if you want to invest in something cheap and un- 
patented in the way of a soil lifter that will result with greater benefit 
to the crop, I think the one illustrated there would prove very valua- 
ble. 

By Mr. Murray — I certainly did not wish to be understood as mix- 
ing the varieties to the extent mentioned in planting for market I 
would certainly alternate the rows. We have to get them reasonably 
close together if we want the best results ; of course, I would not ad- 
vise the mixing of anything for market, and I agree with the gentlemen 
and think the grading would be a good thing. 

By Mr. Bell — I have the pleasure of belonging to the Benton Coun- 
ty (Ark.) Horticultural Society where we are trying to get up a good 
society. The President of our Society is a large berry-raiser, he makes 
large shipments every year and has for the last ten years or more, and 
he asked me to try and ascertain from this Society what was the 
standard of a new berry called the Clyde, and I rise to ask the Presi- 
dent during this meeting to ascertain whether it is known to deserve 
the reputation it has gained in the locality where it is being raised. 
We heard that one grower in Missouri has picked eight hundred crates 
from 2k acres and was only about one-half or two-thirds done picking; 
that was the report that came to our society at the last meeting and I 
was requested to ascertain if that was a fact, and we felt interested in 
the matter on account of the reputation the new berry was said to 
have. 

By Mr. Miller — I have it now the second year and in my planting 
this last spring I planted about twenty-four plants each, in twenty rows, 



SUMMER MEETING. 51 

and I let those run so as to make a fall row of each and I have now 
about thirty varieties, a row about seventy-five yards long of each^ 
Among all these twenty-five or thirty varieties the Clyde is the 
most promising, quite large and productive, I can go in there and get 
a box of fine berries in a very short time ; and the Ruby which has not 
been mentioned yet I expect to cultivate extensively next year. The 
Parker Earle with me is the berry, and if I can't grow ten thousand 
quarts to the acre I will quit growing berries. I have plants there 
that last year made quite a number of runners and a quart of berries 
to the plant. I want the early runners; I have known plants set out 
last fall have a handfall of berries on them, and plants that I could 
hardly cover with a half bushtl, they have run out and made rows of 
runners and these are runners I am going to take ; I use for fertilizer 
barnyard manure, hen manure and ashes. 

By Mr. Gilbert — I have a few Clyde plants in bearing; they are 
not satisfactory with me at all. 

The Clyde is a perfect bloomer. 

By Prof. Whitten — Among the seedling varieties there are at least 
30 very promising ones, a number of them were selected several years 
ago and when only one parent from which they came was known. 

There are two varieties at least which are doing much better than 
many where both parents were known. We have 180 varieties recom- 
mended throughout the State that we have tried side by side ; now as 
to the seedling strawberries ; two of the seedlings are considerably 
ahead of any that we could get hold of, and there are half dozen at 
least that are equally as good as many others. Some of them have not 
been tested enough as yet for us to say absolutely what they will 
prove ; some have been sent out to prominent strawberry growers in 
the State who have promised to test them and send reports to us, and 
we hope to have an account at the winter meeting of how these berries 
do. 

There is one point of interest in regard to those berries where 
both parents were known, and that is this : that out of several crosses 
that were made, the Crescent crossed with the Sharpless gave the 
largest percentage, by far, of good varieties. Out of about 80 plants 
crossed with the Sharpless there were very few that were not good ; 
out of an;^ other cross that were made it was the exception instead of 
the rule that any of them were very good ; the Crescent crossed with 
the Sharpless was a very good cross indeed. 

By Mr. Williams — About that Clyde berry spoken of a few minutes 
ago — while I do not wish to claim any notoriety or anything of thfst 
kind at all, I just wish to state my experience with a berry called the 



52 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Clyde. About eleven years ago I originated a berry on my place and 
named it after my youngest boy and called it the Clyde. I propagated 
and raised from that berry for three years and scattered it broadcast 
over the country under the name of the Clyde ; after a few years I 
plowed it up and thought no more about it, for it did not prove suc- 
cessful with me, until within the last two or three years I have begun 
to hear a great deal about the Clyde ; now if that is the Clyde that 
originated with me — I do not know whether it is or not — but if it is I 
will just say try it very sparely at first anyway. It is a self fertilizer, 
the stem is rather coarse, and the berry is a little inclined itself to be 
coarse, looks as if you might have thrown a little sand over it ; I da 
not know that this is the berry that originated with me, as it proved 
after so long a time worthless with me, but I know I scattered that 
berry over the country under the name of the Clyde, and whether 
some one has grown it and been successful, or whether it is another 
berry sprung up under the same name or not, I cannot say. That was 
some ten or eleven years ago, and it might do better with some of you 
than it did with me, but it did very well with me for three years. 

By Mr. Barnes — I would like to know if anyone can tell me any- 
thing about a berry called the Bisel? 

By Mr. Miller — I had the Bisel a few years ago and it did not come 
up to the mark and I let it run out. 

By Mr. McKinney — I have the Bisel but it is not very good with 
me. 

Mr. Gilbert — I had the Bisel and do not consider it of any good at 
all. 



MARKETING THE STRAWBERRY. 

In the fertile Ozark country, yea, in the great commonwealth of 
Missouri, the big red apple is not alone king. There is at least one 
other royal product and a princely aspirant for kingly honors. Into 
the lists has come a new knight, and his escutcheon bears the legend 
AVarfield, Clyde, Crescent, Gandy. 

He has come to stay and asks your good offices in his coronation, 
and your loyal support in the continuance of his reign. Long live 
king strawberry. 

I am here today as his embassador, his knighl errant, his Sir 
Lancelot. It has been said by those weak-hearted, or possibly pessi- 
mistically inclined, that the strawberry would, ere long, be the subject 
of over-production, and some there are who have began practicing the 
chanting of its requiem. Allow me to say that it is not in over-pro- 



SUMMER MEETING. 63 

duction that the danger lies, but instead, in the crops unequal distri- 
bution. Your output properly and judiciously disseminated and your 
problem is solved and you will not have even a fractional remainder 
to leave on your vines or give to the birds. You are not raising a 
case, a box or a berry too many, but you have not as yet mastered 
the situation in regard to properly marketing this great product. It 
is pleasant, however, to note that you are assiduously studying how to 
remedy this grievous error, and in a little while, we hope in another 
season, you will be placing car lots with justice toward all and malice 
toward none, and reaping the reward your labor in developing the in- 
dustry so richly deserves. 

Do not glut or over crowd any one market or any individual re- 
ceiver. Give the house your association ships to as even a supply as 
possible and then see to it that he does not over-crowd himself by ask- 
ing from your neighbors and getting in larger quantities than he can 
handle to advantage. The difiliculty, as it does and has appeared, 
lies in the asking of too much and of the giving too bountifully. 

Proper, just and equitable distribution should be your ambition. 
Not only in marketing your strawberries, but your peaches, apples and 
other fruit that you so largely consign as well. Co-operation in any 
industry prolongs its usefulness, regulates its supply and demand and 
ninety-nine times out of a hundred produces the best possible general 
result. You have realized its benefits in your home organization and 
have locally felt its beneficent influences. But you have not yet gotten 
all there is in it and you are just at the threshold of its relative worth, 
where, I am sorry to say, many of you are only too anxious to stop and 
go no farther. This is not wise nor is it courageous. 

My idea is, that unity of action and oneness of purpose among the 
■different associations between Van Buren and Springfield, Carthage 
and Monett will be the scalpel that will make the incision, find the 
trouble and remove the obstruction. It is more than a little difiicult to 
say just how co-operation can be brought about to the best interests 
of all concerned, but weightier problems than this have been solved 
and this can be, surely. I will quote from a letter in my possession 
from a gentleman who has probably done as much towards making it 
possible to raise strawberries profitably as any in this great land of 
ours, he says : " I agree with you fully that the representative houses 
in the various markets can sell to advantage all the berries that are 
grown In Southwest Missouri and Northern Arkansas. The business 
has by no means gotten beyond the capacity of the legitimate receivers, 
but elements have crept in that are, we regret to say, most ruinous to 
producers and receivers alike, and must, in the end, if not remedied* 



54 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

prove disastrous to all. The interests of both are identical in as far as 
getting as much out of the goods as is possible is concerned. The 
more the business can be concentrated, the better will be the results 
obtained, and the less friction there is caused by over-loading or 
shipping to irresponsible parties, simply because they have announced 
their market, and in well written letters asked for the business, the 
nearer will you all be satisfied with net results. Unbridled competition 
in all its phases at this end of the line and at the shipping point, too, 
raises more havoc in its serious results to all cencerned in the fruit 
traffic than in any other on account of the perishable nature of the 
articles handled, and to realize satisfactory prices, it is altogether 
necessary to get as strong a hold on receipts as possible and have the 
entire co-operation of the shipper in the furtherance of that end. 

There is no question but what complete and amicable co-operation 
is entirely possible, and at the meeting called in October to be held at 
Monett, you should push the matter to the extreme limit and obtain 
the desired end. I, myself, after having ten years' experience in this 
business, was almost persuaded to think that co-operation was not 
feasible or possible. But, having knowledge of the vast strides made 
this year towards such a consummation, I am led to believe that there 
is nothing in the future but what foreshadows good results. At Sar- 
coxie and Van Buren as well, where large shipments were of daily oc- 
currence, they have overcome the disposition that is inherent in us 
all, to take the best of everything for ourselves by first selecting from 
telegraphic market report the houses tbat they would ship to on a 
given day and place the names of these houses in a hat, would in an- 
other article of head-gear place the car numbers, and drawing first 
rrom one hat would announce the name of (he house selected and 
from the other the number of the car to be consigned to that party. 
This system has absolutely done away with all favoritism or inclination 
of the shipping committee to place cars in which they had a large num- 
ber of cases in any one market or to any one individual consignee. It 
has been often asserted that the shipping committee or the secretary of 
associations often billed out car-lots for pecuniary profit and personal 
aggrandizement. But with the new order of things this is almost an 
absolute impossibility. The same system of distribution might be 
within the pale of possibility, and, to my mind, should be quite so 
among the different shipping communities as well as it is locally. I 
would suggest that a committee of, say three, five or seven, be ap- 
pointed from the large shipping centers, and during the shipping 
season have their headquarters at Monett — I say Monett because that 
is the center of the strawberry universe so far as Missouri and Arkau- 



SUMMER MEETING. 55 

sas are concerned. All correspondence, telegraphic or otherwise, 
should go to this committee, a majority of them to decide by lot where 
the cars were to go. I believe that this would obviate the overcrowd- 
ing of any one market, and there would not again in all time be a rep- 
etition of eight cars in Buffalo on a Monday morning and thirteen cars 
in Minneapolis on the same day. In Buffalo this was just twice too 
many and in Minneapolis almost like conditions existed. And how 
did this come about? Simply from the fact that almost every firm in 
the two cities named asked for berries in car lots from this immediate 
section, and I should judge from the receipts that their requests were 
most amply granted. The consequence was much more fatal to the 
grower than it was to the consignee, and the price in the two mar- 
kets named and they, by the way, were not the only fleas on Fido's 
tail, and the prices obtained were fully fifty cents a case less than they 
would have been had this overcrowding not occurred. Had complete 
organization been in existence on the Friday on which these cars were 
shipped, Buffalo would probably had three cars and Minneapolis five, 
which would have in nowise glutted either market. As it was,"8ome 
one, yea, many a one, were extremely fortunate if they got back what 
the crates and the picking cost them, not saying anything of legitimate 
profit, which you all should have. 

J. W. Wallace. Minneapolis, Minn. 



By Mr. Tippin — May I have just about ten minutes, Mr. President, 
to reply to that paper? I assure you I shall appreciate this time. It 
fell to my lot to represent the growers of Southern Missouri in some 
of the Northern markets. I want to say that I heartily endorse the 
theory of co-operation outlined in the paper, and want to say that 
representative berry-growers have had this matter up while in the 
markets and have decided to take the matter up by correspondence, 
and I suppose that Mr. Carson, of the Hood river section, has already 
taken some active steps in this matter. And I want to say to you 
gentlemen about having representatives in the market, that the only 
way for you to know the condition of the market — to know who to 
ship your berries to — is to have some one there. I want to emphasiae 
what the House in St. Paul said to me. They said : "I would rather 
pay you for your time and pay your expenses, if your own people do 
not feel able to send you and pay your expenses ; I would rather pay 
it myself and have you on the market than to save that and not have 
you there." 2^ow, in this matter of solicitation and allotment and all 
that, you cannot know who to send to and who the men are that 



56 STATE HOETICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

handle the berries right. The only way to do is to have a man on the 
market, and then he can tell you the situation of the market and can 
keep you posted, and he can make good deals, and he can afford to be 
earnest because you pay him his salary. When you trust to the men 
there, they will tell you they can make good deals ; they will get a car- 
load of berries when they ought to have only a hundred crates, and 
the only way for them to do then is to cut the price. 

To my certain knowledge there are houses I have been in when I 
would be in the market, and to my certain knowledge they would not 
turn down a single car. There were houses receiving berries they 
had no use for on earth, and the only way they could sell was to cut 
the price, and how did they do it? They advertised the markets a 
week ahead all over Minnesota, Wisconsin and Colorado, and they 
advertised berries for $1.50 when the markets were $1.75. It is not 
right for the strawberry grower to have to pay for this, and the house 
that expects berries to go lower from day to day does not represent 
the interests of the strawberry grower. I have come back here with 
a grip full of information that I gathered quietly upon the streets and 
quietly upon the markets. I went down on the markets to buy straw- 
berries commissioned out by certain men, and I only make statements 
that I have authority to prove, and, as I said before, when you solve 
the problem of growing berries you have not got half over the bridge, 
and believe me, gentlemen, you can never know who to ship to and 
know the condition of the markets without you have your represenra- 
tive men there, and for God's sake, gentlemen, always send him. 



RASPBERRY CULTIVATION. 

The following paper by D. A. Turner, of St. Joseph, in the absence 
of the writer, was read by Secretary Goodman at the State Horticul- 
tural meeting : 

"I see you have me down for a paper on 'Raspberries — Planting, 
Cultivation, Pruning and Varieties.' They should be planted 8x4 feet 
apart. Plant as early in the spring as the ground will work well, or a 
good plan is to let plants get from five to eight inches high and you 
will be sure to have a stand. 

" Cultivation should be thorough and shallow. I use a Planet, Jr., 
five-shovel plow and a two-horse cultivator and cultivate every eight 
or ten days from the time the plants are set to August 20, and hoe 
every other plowing. No weeds or grass should be allowed to grow. 

" The first year pinch back when 16 to 20 inches high. It will 
make them more stocky and cause them to throw out laterals. The 



SUMMER MEETING. 57 

second year pinch back two or three feet high. I never take out the 
old wood till spring, for it is a protection to the new canes. Shorten 
the lateral shoots from 10 to 18 inches in early spring. 

'• I have been growing raspberries for 20 years, and now place the 
Kansas at the head. It stands the winters better and resists anthrac- 
nose better than any variety I know of. It is nearly as large as the 
Gregg and much better in quality. It is second early and makes fine 
large tips and tine canes. 

"The Progress is the best early variety here, fine and large fruit 
and makes belter canes than the Palmer and does well on thin sandy 
clay lands. The Queen of the West is a good berry, and makes the 
largest cane of any variety except the Schaffer. The red varieties I 
will say nothing about, for they have not been a success with me. I 
have a number of varieties now." 



GATHERING, PACKING AND MARKETING SMALL FKUIT. 

The most important part of the whole business of handling small 
fruit is in the packing. I am very particular about whom I employ. 
If a girl or boy applies, the first thing is to take an inventory of their 
personal appearance. If they look (c-lean, neat and tidy, I consider 
their apphcation. If their clothes are dirty and everything seems in 
disorder about them, I generally have all the help 1 need. 

I believe I can go on the street and look at the passers by, and 
tell who would make good pickers. 

Strawberries should be picjced with a steam about one-half or three- 
fourths of an inch in length, either for home market or shipment. If 
possible, every berry should be picked separate and laid in the box. 
Of course we cannot have this done, but we cannot impress the fact 
too often on the pickers that they must be handled carefully. When the 
boxes are nearly full I have them turn the stem end down. This gives 
them a very attractive appearance. There is no fraud in this, the 
berries are no larger, but look so much nicer, and it pays to do it. 
My pickers, when they get used to this way, prefer it to the snap and 
scratch way. I pay my pickers 1| cents per box, and by so doing, I 
have a right to demand they shall be picked as I want them. I pay 
off my pickers every night, and this makes them feel good and eager 
for the fray next morning. 

This brings us to crating up. Crates should be made out of nice 
clean timber, and don't spare the nails. For shipping I cover the 
berries with heavy tissue paper before nailing on the tops. For home 



58 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

market, of course, this is not necessary. I do not know whether it 
would be best to use paper in shipping in refrigerator cars or not. In 
hauling berries to the home market, or for shipment, great care should 
be taken not to jostle them. A spring wagon with a careful driver 
should always be used. 

The same manner can be practiced in handling raspberries and 
blackberries, except, of course they are picked without stems. 

G. W. Hopkins, Springtield, Mo. 



DISCUSSION ON RASPBEERIES. 

By Mr. Tippin — Some of us got the idea that it would be a good 
idea to put paper over the top of berry crates before the lid is nailed 
on ; my experience has been that it is very disastrous. Mr. Peak sent 
up some 12 or 14 crates with heavy card board paper over them, and 
they were almost a total loss. Just before I came here there was a 
car-load of berries came in from Hood River, Oregon, grown by irriga- 
tion, and it of course was not a fair test as they had been delayed two 
days, but they all had paper over the top and the car was almost a 
total loss. 

From my experience I could not advise, and I would admonish 
anyone, not to use paper over the top of the boxes ; next year I think 
I will leave more ventilation on the top of the crate than I did this 
year. 

Question : I would like to ask Mr. Hopkins how he pays his pick- 
ers for raspberries and blackberries ? 

By Mr. Hopkinsr-I used to pay two cents for raspberries; it is 
worth more to pick raspberries than strawberries ; strawberries about 
a cent and a quarter, or a cent ; I think a cent is a very fair price. I 
believe at a cent a man can make good wages, for he ought to be able 
to pick a hundred quarts a day, and that would be a dollar a day. 

By Mr. Mosely — I believe that a cent a quart throughout the sea- 
son will make very good wages. In first starting I have paid a cent 
and a quarter, and it would be rather poor wages made at that in con- 
sequence of the berries being thin, and I used to say something like 
this : if you will stay with us through the season and pick berries when 
there are berries to pick, you can make good wages ; otherwise, if you 
do not intend to stop but a short time it will hardly pay you to pick 
berries today as you can't make very good wages at the price we are 
paying. Now at a cent a quart in the height of the season when ber- 
ries are at their fullest, rather a slight woman has made as high as $1.24, 



SUMMER MEETING. 5D 

and averaged as high as a dollar for blackberries ; strawberries were 
picked at the same price, that is, a ceuta quart; raspberries are usually 
a cent and a quarter to start on and a quarter of a cent higher at the 
end of the season. I do not board the pickers. 

By Mr. Barnes — I used to think I would formulate a plan by which 
I would oJTer premiums; in other words, I found we had pickers who 
would stay with us and take the cream of the picking and then fall 
out and leave the work to the inferior pickers, and with peas and 
beans as well as berries, and I have often thought I would formulate 
a plan by which I would pay a reasonable price and then would attach 
a premium or additional price for those who stayed with us and did 
their work right. I believe it would be a good idea. In practical 
work it might fail because you know the class of people who pick^ 
from the little folks who do not know anything about and are not con- 
cerned in financial matters only as concerns themselves, up to those 
who understand such matters, but it seems to me it is an idea that 
would be beneficial to growers of such stuff as must be picked by 
hand. 

By Mr. Hopkins — It is a very evident fact that at the beginning of 
a strawberry season when you have large berries that pickers can 
make good money at a cent a box, but on the wind up it requires a 
great deal of laborious work to make anything at that price. I pay a 
cent and a half from beginning to end, and I want to say that after 
twenty-six years of growing berries I have not had a picker to leave 
me, not a single one, and sometimes when picking is very hard, I some- 
times pay two cents, although I am not getting any more. And I want 
to say, I have tony pickers. I have had some come to me and offer to pick 
for a season at a cent a box, but I wouldn't turn off my old pickers if 
they would pick for nothing, and I am going to pay a price that will 
justify me in getting good help, and I want to say that I get my pick- 
ers from among the young men and the young women who are gradu- 
ates of the High school and who are educated. I don't have any of 
your trashy pickers, and I find it pays in the end to pay a price that 
will get good help. 

By Mr. Gilbert — I am not so liberal as our Kansas friend. I have 
adopted a system of paying for berries whereby, if the picker does poor 
work and gets tired, or gets tired when it gets hot. he receives a dis- 
count, not a premium. We use these basket carriers, and I have adopted 
a system of punching cards. It is one I got up myself: take an ordinary 
shipping tag and make an addition of six for the six boxes and an 
addition of nine on pink or cardinal colored cards. The addition of 
nine means a cent and a half a box. If you want to pay a cent and a 



60 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

half a box, yoa punch the card every time a carrier is brought in ; if 
you want to pay a cent a box, I use mauilla cards — take a manilla card. 
This year we made it a rule that if our pickers would 8ta>y with us as 
long as we wanted them, we would pay a cent and a quarter a box, 
provided our berries netted us less than $1.75 a crate; if more than 
$1.75, we paid a cent and a half, and if they got tired or fired they got 
a cent a box. 

On a shipping tag you can get five rows of figures from the top 
to the bottom of the card, making an addition of six on one card and 
nine on the other, and still have room on the right hand of the card 
for additions of 1, 2 and 3 for odd boxes ; during the season, if a picker 
wants a dollar or two, the cards will show whether there is that much 
due him, and if he has picked that many boxes, we give it to him and 
punch in the center of the card the number of even dollars. 

By adopting this plan we have had less trouble than we ever had 
before, and there is no book-keeping about it, the accounts are always 
footed up, and it is very much less trouble than any system I have 
ever tried. I intend to get an electrotype of the form so I can print 
the cards very cheaply. 

By Mr. Zink — I have tried to reduce this matter of picking to a 
system, and while I may not have it down to a system yet, I at least 
have it on a much better plan. I have my pickers numbered from 1 up 
to as many as I have and I have my bandies numbered, and then I 
have a man mark the boxes as they come in with the number of the 
person, and when a person comes in, for instance it is 23, I will have 
him turn the box over and mark it 23, and no matter whether it is a 
half day or half hour I can go to any box that is there and tell just 
who picked it, and if there is any better way of detecting any fraud I 
want to know it. 

Question : Do you mean to say you have each box of berries emp- 
tied out and the box marked and the berries put back in ? 

No, sir; I have my man just hold the box up this way and mark 
the number right on the bottom and I can go there and lift the box 
and look under there and see just who picked it. 

Mr. Gilbert — I would like to call attention to the Babbit rasp- 
berry I am growing; it is very productive and one of the best shippers 
that I know of. They will arrive in good shape at Iheir destination 
over almost any distance you want to send them. 

Mr. Murray — I am with Mr. Gilbert ; I think that is an Iowa berry ; 
it makes a good grower in Iowa; it has proved more productive than 
the Hopkins and one that will sell better, I saw them in Iowa side by 
side, the treatment was identical, and I wouldn't be positive about the 



SUMMER MEETING. 61 

yield, but on the bush the Babbit was much larger, is hardy and a fine 
grower. I have the Babbit, the Kansas, Gregg, Hopkins, Winona and 
one or two new varities, and I have received from our worthy Presi- 
dent a few plants; that I wont try to tell you about yet; I can say 
though that it is very promising arid very good, but I don't know 
whether it will turn out four or five times better than anythiog else or 
not, but I hope it will but of the varieties I have spok<^n of the Kan- 
sas is certainly one of the best, it is a fine grower and a good berry. 

I have it and have others, but have not tested these different varie- 
ties side by side in late years, therefore, will not speak at length. [ 
believe we are inclined to overlook the raspberry ; to get interested in 
one berry and overlook another. In our part of the State there are 
not many raspberries and I think they could be grown with some 
profit. I grow only the black caps now. 

By Mr. Gilbert — I would like to say of the Babbit, I do not con- 
sider it a berry of good quality ; in Southern Missouri we want some- 
thing we can ship that will arrive at its destination in good condition; 
in Northern Missouri, Southwest Iowa, Eastern Kansas and Nebraska, 
where they have plenty of blue grass and sugar and cream they are 
fine, but for the reason they are good shippers I like them better than 
any I know of; they are of good size, but not very good quality, but 
with plenty of sugar and cream they are very nice. 

By Mr. Barnes — I would like some one to give us some practical 
information about raspberries and blackberries ; I would like to know 
the different methods of picking the raspberries and blackberries. With 
strawberries you are right down with the berries and can get to them 
very easily, but with raspberries and blackberries it is different, and I 
would like to know the best method. 

By Mr. Hopkins — I have always used what is called a half-bushel 
basket ; if the vines are full they set them down and they can some- 
times fill a box or two without moving the basket; as to going along 
and picking a single box, I would not hear to that at all ; raspberries 
require to be picked just as carefully as strawberries. 

By Mr. Van Houten — When I used to gather berries I had a little 
crate made that held two boxes and I had that fastened by a string 
around my neck and a string around my waist, and all things considered 
I found that the most satisfactory and the best pickers I had invariably 
used them. I found that women made the best pickers. 

Mr. Everington — I have a number of the Kansas here on my place 
near Springfield and they seem to do very well ; it is a large berry and 
ripens its fruit most all at once, and with me it has done better than 
any raspberry I ever used. The Kansas, and some of the same kind, 



62 STATE HORTICULTDEAL SOCIETY. 

are to my notion the coming berry. For a marketing berry, it would 
not market so well as those Mr. Gilbert spoke of, it is a softer berry. 
It is very productive, and I think the Kansas is the coming berry, so 
far as my experience goes. 

Mr. Hopkins — I have set out a few of the Kansas, and my objec- 
tion, jnst as the other gentleman said, it ripens its fruit all at once. 
The berry is all right I suppose. 

Mr. Atwood — I want to say a word for the Progress. I visited 
at Seligman H. C. Fitch, who is a large berry grower and has about 
20 acres of raspberries, and he says the best growers are the Kansas 
and the Progress, but the Progress is ahead of the Kansas, and another 
thing in its favor, the season for it is longer, and the Kansas ripens 
quickly and we will have a glut in the market ; the Progress will stay 
in the market twice as long. They commence to ripen about the same 
time as the Kansas but last much longer. 

Mr. Smith also recommends the Gibson very highly. 

Mr. Murray — It rather strikes me that berries that ripen all at 
once can be picked cheaper than berries that ripen longer. There 
might be a glut in the local market, but when it comes to shipping I 
do not think it would make any diflFerence. We might have a number 
of different varieties, starting in with the Babbit and then the Kansas 
and others and have them ripen long after each other, but I do not 
think a berry ought to be discarded because it ripens its fruit all at 
once, that is, within a week or ten days. 

Mr. Hopkins — I do not say discard it at all, but I think it would 
be bad policy to everybody to go in and plant the Kansas, 

At the close of this session President Jesse was introduced and 
the meeting adjourned until the afternoon. 



Wednesday, June 9 — 2 p. m. 

The session was called' to order by the President. 
The following letter was read : 

Sarcoxie, Mo , June 7, 1897. 
Mr. G. A. Atwood, Secretary Greene County Fruit Growers' Association, Sprlngfleld, Mo. : 

We today express prepaid to your address one bale of peach and plum trees for dis- 
tribution and trial; trees kept In our storage building since last November. Hand them 
to some one that will take care of same and likely report success or failure of same io 
grow . 

The packages will be in 3 trees of a kind— peacli and plum. Let them go as you think 
best. 

One of us will try to be at the meeting however. Our James P.. is yet fast on the ship- 
ping committee. They expect to get 3 cars of berries out today, mostly Gandy. 

We have had several fine rains in the past few days, which is causing all transplanted 
stock to start to growing nicely. Yours truly, 

James B. Wild & Bros. 



SUMMER MEETING. 63 

Mr. Mosley was appointed to take charge of the distribntioa of 
these trees, and reported as follows: 

Mr. Nelson, Lebanon, Mo. — Three Botan, 3 Flaters St. John. 

Snodgrass & Moore, West Plains, Mo. — Three Botan, 3 Flaters 
St. John, 3 Hytenkio. 

S. B. Mortiman, Springfield, Mo. — One Old Mixon Free, 1 Stump. 

D. T. Ferbrache, Springfield, Mo. — One Botan. 

Geo. Williams, Huinansville, Mo. — Three Stump. 

J. B.Jones, Peirce City, Mo. — Three Flaters St. John. 

W. H. Parks, Springfield, Mo One Botan, 1 Old Mixon Free, 1 

Stump. 

O. F. Co. & S. W. Gilbert, Olden, JMo Three Hytenkio, 3 Sap- 

pington No. 1. 

F. C. Myer, Springfield, Mo. — Three Sappington No. 1. 
W. H. Vaughan, Springfield, Mo. — Three Flaters St. John. 

W. T. Zink, Springfield, Mo One Old Mixon Free, 1 Stump, 2 

Botan, I Flaters St. John. 

J. M. Blockman, Springfield, Mo. — Three Old Mixon Free. 

J. T. Fulbright, Springfield, Mo.— One Old Mixon Free, 1 Stump. 

G. 0. Hughes, Exeter, Mo. — Three Sappington No. 1, 3 Stump. 
Mrs. E. C. Mayer, Mt. Grove, Mo.— Three Botan. 

Fred Marshall, Springfield, Mo. — One Stump, 1 Old Mixon Free. 

Ed. Davis, Springfield, Mo — Six Wild Goose. 

Theo. Bamster, Springfield, Mo. — Three Wild Goose. 

O. H. Michell, Springfield, Mo— Two Flaters St. John, 1 Botan. 

B. F. Fielder, Springfield, Mo.— Three Wild Goose. 

W. H. Parks, Springfield, Mo. — One Botan, 1 Old Mixon Free. 

S. S. Tracy, Springfield, Mo One Botan, 1 Old Mixon Free, 1 

Stump. 

Reports of trees previously given were called for. 

Cold storage trees from Wild Bros. — One year ago I received two 
Japanese plums and two peach treew, planted on my return from meet- 
ing. Trees all lived and made light growth last year. This year they 
are making a good growth and doing fairly well. Gilbert. 

Planted one Elberta peach and one Apricot tree from cold 
storage. Received the trees at horticultural meeting at Willow 
Springs. Planted in June, and trees have grown and are now large 
and very thrifty. S. Kaufman. 

The meeting was opened to a discussion on blackberries. 



64 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



DISCUSSION OF BLACKBERRIES. 

Mr. W. H. Vaugban — I have been cultivating the Early Harvest 
for ten or twelve years and find no rust on it. 

I have a new berry I want to introduce to the Society. This is an 
early berry; ripens about a week earlier than the Early Harvest; 
ripens early like the Kansas. This is a new berry I found in a row of 
Early Harvest and I set them out and cultivated them, and have a long 
row of them now. Do not know whether they are something new or 
not. They are a week earlier than the Early Harvest and about a third 
larger, and I have never seen any appearance of rust during five years 
that I have tried them. The Kittatinny and Lawton and other varieties 
I have tried all rust. The Erie I got and set out a big patch in the 
spring and plowed it up in the fall ; every plant in the field had rust on 
it, nearly. This new berry does not rust. 

Q. What is the character of the new berry when it is ripe I 

A. It is firm enough to ship wel! ; it is not so firm as the Early 
Harvest, it is the firmest berry we have, but this is a good firm berry ; 
I had several crates of it last season here in market. 

I have the Taylor, Taylor Prolific it is called, the Stone's Hardy, 
Erie, Minnewaski and one from Mr. Wiley. The Taylor is a very good 
berry; now at this time the Minnewaski atid Erie are my choice. I do 
not think that the Erie can be beat in any way. 

Mr. Zink — I have the Taylor, Knox, Early Harvest and the Maxwell 
and the only rust I found in them was in the Early Harvest ; I got 
about a dozen stalks of rust in the Early Harvest. The Maxwell is the 
most prolific berry I ever saw in my life ; it is a large berry, sweet and 
of good flavor, but I am afraid it is too soft for shipment. It is some- 
what on the order of the dewberry, has a spreading bush, does not 
grow upright, but I look for something grand from the Maxwell berry. 

Mr. Moseley — I would like to ask the Association for a preventative 
or remedy for the blackberry rust. 

Prof. Steadraan — The Bordeaux mixture is the remedy that is used 
in 99 cases out of a hundred, applied just as soon as you see the first 
indications of rust ; it is not a curative but a preventative. 

Mr. Gilbert — I am growing a few of the Snyder, Tajlor and Early 
Harvest. I have found five or six stalks of rust in the Early Harvest 
but none in the others. The most important question with me is after 
getting the fruit how to get the money out of it. 

Out of ten years' experience in growing Early Harvest 

Taylor and Snyder blackberries, I must eay I have never seen any 
rust in either at my place, with ten years' experience in growing. 



SUMMER MEETING. 65 

The cultivation has been quite light. I have never had any occa- 
sion to mulch with anything. My cultivations have been, of course, 
to clean out the old canes, remove them, and at the proper time to 
pinch off the top, and in the spring, just before the buds are starting 
out, to take ray shears and shear the entire patch, shearing each va- 
riety about equal, however, clipping the Early Harvest a little shorter 
than the others, on account of the fruit being so heavy, and I have 
never seen a bit of rust among the varieties, and the cultivation is 
plowing one time ; as a matter of course I spade up the entire ground, 
except the canes I leave, and one plowing is all the cultivation they 
get during the year. The Early Harvest has the lead in the plants 
that will be there; it has about twice as many spoken for as the others 
and the plants are now ordered with a special charge for me to keep 
them for them. The Early Harvest is a special favorite with those who 
see them. My place is not very stony, on a reasonable height, where 
the water does not stand, and I don't think any family in Howell 
county can very well afford to be without all three of those varieties. 
I particularly favor the Early Harvest for home use, for the fact it is 
about 30 days from the first picking until the last one is gone. 

By Mr. Williams— In using root cuttings, which we do frequently 
at my place at least, do you think the roots of plants that have rust 
are any more apt to take the rust than those taken from plants that 
never have the rust ? 

Mr. As to the Early Harvest it is a native of Missouri, and 

first found its way into J. T. Lovett's hands and he introduced it, if I 
remember rightly ; someway or another he got it into his hands and 
then introduced it to the public. 

Now as to rust : I had some vines that were pretty badly rusted ; 
I intended tatake them out and throw them away, but just neglected 
to do it, and this spring just as they were beginning to leave out, I 
sprayed them thoroughly. Last year they rusted so that the leaves 
fell off; and when the leaves were about half grown, I sprayed them 
again. So I think by spraying in time, just as the leaves begin to 
appear you can keep rid of the rust. The spray I used was composed 
of the ordinary Bordeaux mixture. 

As to using cuttings affected by the rust, they are more liable 

to rust than from plants that are not affected by the rust. 

Q. Give us the reason why you think they are more apt to rust ? 
Where does the rust originate on the plant ? 

A. That has been a mystery to me, from the fact that I have 
noticed when sprouts were coming up out of the ground they were 
H— 5 



66 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

somewhat infested with the rust as they came up, and whether it is in 
the roots or in the plant, I do not know, however, this spraying will 
prevent it. It will prevent it except in new sprouts springing up from 
the roots. As to variety, I have grown all the varieties mentioned, and 
I have grown what is called the Salzer Early blackberry ; it is by tar 
the most delicious berry I have had; it spreads over somewhat like 
red cap raspberry or the dewberry, and is very fine. 

Mr. Goodman — Under no condition would I buy from a nursery- 
man who had plants infested with the rust. You cannot injure the 
leaves or the top of a plant without injuring the roots, consequently 
you ought never, under any circumstance, to grow plants from root 
cuttings infested with the rust. My experience has been that the 
Kittatinay is more susceptible to the rust than any of them. 

President Evans — This subject of blackberry rust is like pear 
blight, the more we say about it the less we know about it; I had some 
berries that had the rust and took them out and threw them away and 
a man came along and took some of them, and I advised him to leave 
them alone, but he planted them and had fine berries. And that is the 
way it goes, you cannot tell anything about it. 

Mr. Van Houten — In reference to pear blight, I think the close 
observer will notice that the blight appears on the new succulent 
growth and from my investigation I came to the conclusion that what- 
ever caused the rust continued there at the surface of the ground among 
the leaves, or in some way in the ground. I think that plants taken 
from where there had been rust, although the roots themselves might 
not be affected, there would be that possibility, even the probability 
of the germ of that disease, so I wouldn't plant anything from rusted 
plants, and I believe that rust is propagated in that way and I do not 
think it would be well to take roots from a rusted patch ; in my ex- 
perience I have never known of plants being taken from a rusted 
patch, but where the rust again appeared. I believe the Bordeaux mix- 
ture if used will cure it. Extermination, in my judgment, is the only 
sound way when rust gets started, and then be sure and propagate 
from plants that have not been rusted. 

Mr. Evans — I want to say that in speaking of pear blight, a privi- 
lege has been accorded to Mr. Van Houten that has not been granted 
to any other member of this Society for 20 years. 

As this is an experience meeting I want to state my exper- 
ience with blackberry rust. I cultivate the Snyder, I think they are 
about the best berry we have ; in the catalogue they are listed nine 
points for deliciousness. I had about an acre and a half and I had 
picked them for several years and they commenced to rust and in the 



SUMMER MEETING. G7 

first place, there was a small patch of them rusted and the third year 
probably one-third of the patch was rusted ; I took from that patch 
and set another patch just across a little piece of meadow, not more 
than a few rods from them, and there is no appearance of rust in them. 

My preference would be to take berries from a sound patch, but as 
I have stated, there is no appearance of rust in my patch ; my berries 
are healthy and fine from the start to the present, and my opinion is 
that it is confined more to the leaves than to the roots. We took them 
from a patch where there was rust and got a sound patch from it. 

Prof. Whitten — Blackberry rust has been investigated considerably 
of late years by microscopic experiments, and it has been found that by 
far the greater number of cases that the spores fall to the ground and 
affect the lower part first as micelium. You would not know that rust 
was in that plant until the micelium had commenced on the lower 
part of the plant, and then after the plant has got more fully grown, 
the spores, or what corresponded to the seed, began to show on the 
plant. Now, you may take a part of that plant infested by the rust 
and you may grow a perfect plant from that, but that is a dangerous 
thing to do, because the micelium does circulate on the underground 
part of the plant, and you might get a root without the rust, yet on 
the other hand you might get it with the rust. 

Q. By Mr. Snodgrass: I would like to ask how this rust operates. 

A. It is commonly known that the red spores that we see on the 
leaves which begin to fall off after those red blotches begin to come, 
and that is what corresponds to the seed, those red spores, will 
germinate under favorable circumstances. More frequently it washefj 
down into the lower part and spreads under the ground, and it grows 
there in the shape of what is called micelius during the winter and in 
the spring it begins to come up, when it comes up and begins to shed 
spores or seeds by means of those red blotches, and in that way is 
spread. 

Q. How does the Bordeaux mixture reach them and kill them I 

A. Those spores may gather around other of the spores and still 
be invisible to you ; but shake some of them off on a glass and put it 
under a microscope and you will see millions of them when there will 
be very few you can see on the glass. Ii is not known how long those 
spores will live; they may live there all winter, but we are not sure ; 
but wherever the Bordeaux mixture strikes them it will kill them. 

Q. Then it follows that if the disease got into the root there 
would be no cure for it ? 

A. It would not kill the disease that was in the roots, but it 
would prevent that from spreading out into another crop of spores ; 



68 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

if you will kill the spores, kill the micelium in the old plants, and they 
will gradually disappear. What micelium is in the youn^ sprouts now 
will be taken away when you trim after harvest; then if you keep the 
spores away, the micelium will gradually disappear. 



THE KITTATIKNY BLACKBERRY. 

The paper assigned to me by our worthy Secretary for this meet- 
ing will enable me to answer letters of inquiries asking what is the 
largest and has the longest period of ripening. 

The Kittatinny blackberry is the largest, has the longest period of 
ripening that I know of, and there is no better market berry. It is 
very productive, but I would not advise planting a large acreage in 
soil where blackberries are subject to rust, as the Kittatinny is subject 
to rust as much, or more, than any other variety in cultivation. 

In answer to the question : Will it pay to plant wild blackberries f 
Yes and no. It pays to set wild blackberries rather than to do without 
them ; but it pays much better to plant the cultivated varieties. I have 
dug up the largest wild ones that I could find ; selected them at time 
of ripening, marked them to be dug up for planting, but failed to find 
them, when cultivated, up to our best tame varieties. One little patch 
in which we dug the plants from the woods eighteen years ago, were 
cultivated about four years. When we found them in the forest the 
canes were as large as the largest Kittatinny, and berries in size between 
Snyder and Kittatinny. I thought that we had found a berry to take 
the place of the Kittatinny, as it was said wild blackberries were free 
from rust. 

True, they have shown no sign of rust, have borne sixteen crops^ 
berries the size of Snyder, but not as productive ; and others proved 
about the same. The same, I find, holds good with raspberries. When 
we find these big berries we generally find them growing in rich fence 
corners or where old apple-tree tops, leaves and wood have rotted for 
years and made the ground rich with natural fertilizers, and a new coat 
of leaves added every year to hold the moisture in the ground. This 
is one reason so many fruit-growers get deceived when they see these 
blackberries grow wild. They don't think of the favorable spots where 
they grow. They dig them up, set them out, pot-feed them like a fifty- 
dollar pig or calf, and get deceived themselves, and unintentionally 
deceive those they sell these new berry plants to. I will close by say- 
ing : Plant the Kittatinny blackberries, care for them, and you will 
have large fine berries. Jacob Faith. 



SUMMER MEETING. 69 

Glasgow, Mo., June 7, 1897. 

IMembers of tlie Mo. S. 11. S.— I regret that I cannot be wltli you, as we are In the 
mlclst of the largest and finest strawberry crop we ever seen or grew. And I send you a 
few specimens for exhibition— not to compete for premiums— but to show the people what 
Glasgow strawberries are like. If it were a week earlier 1 should hava sent you specimens 
of 35 or io varieties, but the earlier ones are running very small now and we could not do 
them justice. 

"We have picked up to eve of June T, 800 cases of 24 quarts each from about 4 acres, and 
with another rain will get HOO to 400 more. I mention this so that If there Is any one attend- 
ing the meeting looking for a location lo grow fruit, and especially berries, say to them to 
come to Glasgow, the garden spot of Missouri. 

I have been too busy to write you a paper on blackberries as per program, but you 
will get it In time to get It in the report, and I will Just say now, plant .Snyder 4x8 feet, cul- 
tivate thorough and often, manure freely and you will always have plenty of blackberries. 
There may be better and more profitable ones than Snyder, but Snyder Is good enough for 
me. We expect to get .5,000 quarts per acre this year. 

Wishing all a pleasant time, which I know you are going to have, I am 

Fraternally yours, 

Henkt Schnell. 



GRAPES, OLD AND NEW. 

1 am pleased to have the above subject assigned to me, because I 
wish to draw the attention of our fruitgrowers to this subject in 
earnest. Why is it that Missouri, where this fruit can be grown to 
«8uch perfection, will admit cars, in fact, train-loads, of grapes to be 
brought into our State from Ohio and New York, and be sold at a 
proiit ? There is something wrong in this. 

Some years ago the rot seemed to discourage our grape-growers, 
80 that acres and acres were dug up and destroyed, partly on account 
of the rot and partly on account of the low price they got for their 
grapes. 

Now, since the spraying with the Bordeaux mixture will prevent 
the rot and keep the foliage healthy, we certainly can compete with 
our Ohio and New York friends. We have suitable lands here for the 
purpose, and labor is as cheap as in those other states. Besides this, 
the land on which they grow their grapes is valued much higher than 
ours. 

THE OLD VARIETIES. 

How far shall I go back for these °? Sixty-five years, when only 
a few of the American varieties were in existence, and only a few 
really worth growing. 

The advent of the Isabella and Catawba were a great step in ad- 
vance, and are not to be despised at this day, as both are excellent 
table grapes, and the latter among the best for a white wine. Next 
came the Concord, which one might say revolutionized the grape 
culture, and this is today the most popular one in the states east of the 
Rocky Mountains. 



70 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Next came Rogers' Hybrids, a number of which are grown by 
most grape growlers now, yet Goethe, Massasoitt, Lindley, Wilder, 
Merrimack and Barry are the most popular. I was the first man in 
Pennsylvania to fruit the Concord, and also a number of Rogers' Hy- 
brids, the originators kindly sending me a start of them before they 
were offered to the public. Rickets' Hybrids made another advance, 
and among which are some of the finest grapes grown in this. State. 

Empire Stale, Jefferson, Lady Washington, Secretary, Excelsior 
are among the most prominent. Geo. U. Campbell, of Delaware, Ohio, 
sent out a number of valuable ones. The Triumph, which, with his 
consent I named, is, in my opinion, the best white grape for table that 
we have, but is not quite hardy in our severest winters. Underhill's 
Irving (white), Black Eagle and Defiance are superb black ones which 
he allowed me to name. The Norton is also going back pretty far, and 
it has no equal as a red wine grape except in the Cynthiana, which some 
claim to be the same grape, but is singular, if so, when one originated 
near Richmond, Va., and the other in Texas, somewhere on the Red 
river. 

Jacob Moore, of Ithaca, N. Y., produced the Diamond, as good a 
hardy white grape as we now have. Herman Jaeger, of Neosho, pro- 
duced a number. The late John Burr, of Leavenworth, Kan., gave us 
quite a number of excellent varieties, and T. H. Munson, of Denison, 
Tex., has perhaps surpassed them all in his excellent seedlings. I can- 
not name all these varieties, but any one can get their catalogues that 
desire them. 

To comment on some of these new ones I will state that I con- 
feider Burr's Early Victor the best early black grape we have. Early 
Ohio is another valuable one. Moore's Early is a large berry, but not 
large in bunch, and with me is not productive as is desirable. 

But I am not done with the valuable seedlings. My friend across 
the river here, Jack Russell, has added quite a number of valuable 
ones, many of which were never brought before the public. Wood- 
roff's Red is among the most valuable of the red ones — bunch and 
berry large, very showy and of good quality. 

And now we have Campbell's Early that from all I can learn, is 
going to fill the bill. It is growing finely here to the tune of $2 per 
vine. Am promised a basket of the fruit when ripe, after which I can 
give an opinion of it. Then McPike, of Alton, 111., has a seedling of 
the Norton which is a marvel of size and beauty, but which is not yet for 
sale. Some fifteen years ago the Department of Agriculture at Wash- 
iogton sent out a number of Haskell's seedlings of which I received 
about one dozen varieties. Of these some were wild rampant grow- 



SUMMER MEETING. 71 

era, but bore no fruit ; some died ; others lingered along and 
never made wood strong enough to bear fruit, but a few have sur- 
vived and are now showing well. One in particular is a most vigorous 
grower and profuse bearer of bunches and berry above medium and 
of a quality to my taste excelled by none. As they had no names, but 
went by numbers, 1 named this one Raby, on account of its color. 

And last, bnt by no means least, I come to the Columbian Impe- 
rial, whose picture almost startles one. I went in on this pretty heavy, 
having confidence in the testimonials. Sold a few to others, but 
planted about $15 worth of the vines myself. Last season I was dis- 
appointed with it, but this year it promises better, but by no no means 
up to my expectations. The restrictions may be taken off some, when 
it will be more extensively tried. Men don't like to pay $2.50 for a 
vine and pledge themselves not to propagate, sell or give away any 
wood. The trimmings of my ten vines that I threw away would be 
worth $100, according to the usual price of wood, with that of a vine 
of the same sort. The berries on the small bunches I had last year 
were the largest I ever saw of any native grape, except the old Char- 
ter Oak, which was utterly worthless. 

As to a general description of all these grapes, there is no need 
of giving. It would take up too much space. It is not easy to say 
which rots the most, for with a very few exceptions, all grapes rot more 
or less, unless sprayed or sacked. 

Up to this time the prospect for a full crop of this excellent fruit 
is very promising. No insects have as yet done acy damage, and the 
vines are in good health. 

As mentioned in the beginning of this article, will again ask 
whether we cannot grow all the grapes here that we need? We have 
varieties good enough for any one, and might do without the Califor- 
nians, were it not that far-fetched and dearly bought has a charm for 
some people. I am fond of good things myself, but have never bought 
one dollar's worth of California grapes. But their oranges ( which we 
cannot raise ) I like to pay for. 

I rented an acre of Norton Virginia from a neighbor that shows a 
full setting, but in the pinching back I took off at least 30 per cent of 
the blossom bunches. Expect to have as much weight of fruit as if all 
had been left on. Samuel Millek, Bluffton, Mo. 



72 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



GRAPES IN SOUTH MISSOURI. 

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen — When oar worthy Secre- 
tary requested a paper from me, I declined stating that I was to busy- 
He replied that he could not take no for an answer, and enclosed a 
programme with my subject allotted me, ''Grapes in South Missouri." 
I stand before you, not as an experienced horticulturalist or writer, 
but only a plain every day business man, having been interested in hor- 
ticulture a little less than four years, i came from Chicago to West 
Plains the summer of 1893, buying an interest in the West Plains Fruit 
Co., and assuming the management of same. There was at that time a 
small vineyard of about 200 vines on the place 6 or 7 years old ; they 
had at one time run upon two wires, but the posts had rotted off and 
wires and vines one net work, with weeds higher than my head ; not 
enough grapes matured that season to tell their variety. The follow- 
ing winter I cleared away the old trellis and cut most of the vines to 
the ground, leaving enough for the youngest wood, to try and find out 
the following season the varieties we had. I then staked them, fer- 
tilized the ground thoroughly, and plowed them well early in the spring. 
I took special care of those grapes, and the summer of '94 satisfied me 
that grapes in South Missouri was one of the fruits to grow. We gathered 
from many of those vines we had pruned so severely in the winter, 30 
pounds of fine luscious grapes. Concord, Goethe, Delaware, Clinton 
and Niagara. 

The same spring I decided to put out quite a vineyard, so corres- 
ponded with Mr. Meissner of the firm of Bush & Son and Meissner, 
of Bushberg, Mo. He paid us a visit and located our vineyard. Not 
knowing what I wanted I left it entirely with him as to varieties. We 
have about 15,000 of what is classed as " Market or Table " grapes' 
8,000 strictly wine grapes. I will speak of the varieties later. Will 
now describe my grounds and how planted; my experience may help 
others and prevent the mistakes I made. Our vineyards ( of 36 acres ) 
are located on quite an elevation, sloping to the west, north and east, 
the principal slope being to the east. Many of you no doubt know 
the kind of soil we have about West Plains, providing you have taken 
a pick or mattox and dug through the loose rock to find it. It is a 
strong, deep red soil, heavily impregnated with oxide of iron, silicates 
of potash and soda, carbonates of lime and potash and other chemi- 
cals very conducive to root growth. The broken rock which covers 
the surface of a great portion of our Ozark fruit region is a crystal- 



SUMMER MEETING. 73 

ized limestone; this is nature's own fertilizer, they not only hold the 
heat and moisture, but by the constant disintegration of these rocks 
gives us a fertilizer not to be found elsewhere, and with perfect atmofj- 
pheric conditions we have a soil and climate specially adapted to the 
grape. 

This ground was covered with a second growth of black jack, 
post and white oaks, hickory s, etc. We cleared this off, cutting stumps 
very low, and plowed it thoroughly with what is known as a "Bull- 
tongue" plow. Cross-plowing with same, this cleared it pretty well of 
roots, and left most of the loose rock on the surface, where we wish 
to keep them. We then laid off the ground, making our rows 8 feet 
apart each way. Permit me to state right here, were I to increase my 
acreage, I would not set closer than 10 by 10 feet, and if to be kept 
on the stake system, even further apart. Our vines, as they are now 
set, crowd us, and with diflficulty we can drive through with wagon to 
replace and straighten up posts. We bought one and two-yearold 
vines, the best to be had. I had a force of men digging the holes one 
foot deep and eighteen inches square, another set of picked men 
follcw'iug setting out the grapes, one carrying the vines, spreading the 
roots carefully in the hole, the other filling in the fresh earth, being 
careful to get as few rocks on or near the roots as possible. Of the 
20,000 put out in March, we did not lose a half of one per cent. We 
gave them thorough cultivation all through the season, allowing them 
to run at will on the ground, knowing a good leaf growth meant a cor- 
responding root growth. Many of those vines made a growth the 
first season of 16 to 18 feet. Early the next spring we pruned to two 
buds, selecting the strongest and best. During the winter we had 
cut, barked, sharpened and driven over 20,000 stakes while the 
ground was soft. We make our stakes seven and one-half feet long 
and about the size of a good fence stake, mostly post oak. These we 
drive one and one-half feet in the ground, near the vine, in perfectly 
straight rows. We then tied the young shoots as they came to the 
stake, pinching back and thinning, removing all new growth from 
about the roots. 

Thorough cultivation and constant tilling gave us a marvelous 
growth. The next spring, or second year from time of planting, we 
pruned the two canes to about four and a half feet in height, cutting 
all laterals to one and two buds. We found from experience the sea- 
son before that it would need something stronger than binding twine 
to hold them to the stake. We wound the two canes in opposite direc- 
tions around the stake and fastened them by driving a barbed wire 
staple just below the last joint to the stake, not enough to kill the 



74 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

vine, but keep life and growth enough to hold it firm. The bud below 
takes the lead, and when to top of stake, is there tied to it, and pinched 
back. We had a fine crop of grapes last season, over ten tons shipped 
from these twelve thousand two-year-old vines. In February and 
March of this year we again pruned quite severely, leaving the vine at 
top of stake 6 feet and leaving spurs of one and two buds, again 
Htapeling them to top of stake. They are now loaded with large, well- 
formed bunches. I am giving them thorough cultivation, using the 
double shovel plow, and a very systematic thinning and pinching back^ 
I have a force at the present time of fifteen women and girls, none 
under fifteen, at work, one man having general supervision. We find 
women and girls do the work quicker and better than the average man. 

Now, as to varieties. We have some twenty-five varieties of the 
table grapes, many sent us to test. Our principal varieties are Moore's 
Earle, Worden, Concord, Pocklington, Delaware and Niagara. Some 
of the other varieties are Early Ohio, Goethe, Brilliant, Hasford, Green 
Mountain Vergennes, Moore's Diamond, Martha, Lindley, Lady Wash- 
ington, Jeiferson, Francis B. Hayes, Elvira, Eaton, Cottage, Clinton, 
Brighton. These are all classed as table or market grapes, yet many 
of them will make a delicious wine. Were I to set another commer- 
cial vineyard, and judging from my observation and experience of last 
year, I would put out ninety-nine per cent of Moore's Early, and if un- 
decided what other variety for the one per cent, think would put out 
Moore's Early. Not that they are better than many other varieties, 
but because they are the earliest and consequently we get better prices. 
We shipped our first grapes July 15 last year, fully two weeks ahead 
of the Concord. 

For a small vineyard I would select the following: Moore's Early, 
Warden, Pocklington, Niagara, Brilliant and Goethe. For wine grapes 
we have Norton's Virginia and Cyuthiana for red wine, Herbemont 
and Cunningham for white wine. From the 8,000 of these four varie- 
ties we sold last season over II tons of grapes. Our handling of these 
vines are about the same as the table grapes; they are very vigorous 
growers and require more pinching back and thinning. If we had less 
rock think would put all our grapes on three wires, adopting the Knif- 
fen system as near as possible, but the expense of cultivation where 
you cannot plow both ways would be very tedious and heavy. When 
these stakes are gone I may put them on a high trellis, as we prefer 
that method. You can spread your vines, getting more sunlight and 
circulation, besides plow both ways. So far we have been troubled 
but little by black-rot. The only variety effected to any extent was 
the Herbemont. We tried spraying with the regular Bordeaux mix- 



SUMMER MEETING. 75^ 

ture, but found it entirely too stronj?. We then weakened it, using six 
pounds copper sulphate, six pounds quick lime, two ounces Paris 
green, to 70 gallons water; even this was too strong for the Herbeinont 
foliage, so we gave it up ; and yet we had a third of a crop, but bunches 
were so irregular they did not look well. We fear the same trouble 
this year; will give them another trial and if with no better result will 
dig them up and replace with Cunningham, a delightful wine grape. 
So far we see no signs of rot on any other variety and until I do will 
spend my time in cultivating and pinching back, getting all light and 
circulation about the vine possible. This is my experience with grapes 
in South Missouri up to date. A word further regarding the average 
and 1 am through. In 1893 there were but three commercial vine- 
yards of a few hundred vines each, now there are hundreds and hun- 
dreds of thousands of vines planted, the acreage increasing rapidly 
each year. Up to last year there were but few grapes shipped ; I doubt 
if the commission merchants here ever receive a consignment from all 
that territory. This year we will ship by car-loads, besides there was 
built a very large wine cellar at Brandsville last year, this company 
taking all the good wine grapes grown. I predict that the grape cul- 
ture will grow rapidly and before many years our rocky hillsides will 
be covered with vineyards and the wine industry second to none in 
this country, for those claiming to be experts and are posted say 
our grapes make a wine equal to the best brands of the old country, 
and our table grapes cannot be surpassed by any locality in the United 
States. John T. Snodgrass, West Plains, Mo. 



PLANTING, CARE AND PRUNING OF GRAPES. 

SOIL AND LOCATION. 

The grape prefers well-drained soil and free access to air and sun. 
Hence elevated sites are best, but when the above named requirements 
are afforded they can be successfully grown in any situation. A sandy 
or loamy soil is best, but with good care they will grow in any except 
wet soil. 

PLANTING. 

On level land, rows running north and south are preferable, as 
giving best aeration, but if planted on a slope, the direction of the 
rows must be adapted to that. I have found the best distance for 
planting to be 6 by 6. It is true, on rich soil strong growers may re- 
quire 6 to 8 feet for 5 or 6 years, but after they have borne several 
crops they will lose some of their vigor and then 6 by 6 feet will suffice. 



76 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

The soil should be prepared by deep plowing and subsoiling. Before 
planting the vines should be cat back so only three or four bads of the 
wood will be above ground. Dig holes at least one foot square and as 
deep, with an incline on the lower or down hill side. Place the plants 
on this incline, so the crown or collar from which the limbs grow is 
placed not over two inches beneath the surface. Spread the roots 
( which should be first dipped in water, or paddled) cover them with 
an inch or two of pulverized top soil and then tramp this firmly against 
the roots. Fill in to near top and tramp again, but leave the last inch 
or two of soil loose, so it can absorb moisture and admit rains. Should 
the buds above ground fail to grow, because of some injury or by being 
rubbed off in handling, then the soil about the crown should be care- 
fully loosened in order to give the reserve cluster of buds which nature 
has placed there, a chance to push out. 

TREATMENT. 

First year — This consists mainly in giving thorough culture and 
keeping the plants free from weeds. As the vines require only small 
proportion of the ground the first year, other crops, such as potatoes, 
cabbage and other vegetables can be grown to advantage in and be- 
tween the rows. While grapes should have good soil and good treat- 
ment they should not be stimulated into excessive growth after the sec- 
ond year. During the first year, however, push them as much as you 
can and allow them to grow and ramble over the ground at will. If 
the growth is interfered with by pinching back the new growth or 
thinning out to one or two canes the root growth will be correspond- 
ingly less, because a checking of the leaf growth also checks root 
growth. No grass should ever be allowed to grow near the vines and 
yearly clean culture with proper pruning is necessary for best results. 

Second year — In February or March cut back the leading central 
cane to five or six buds and cut away all small canes or limbs. Put 
up a trellis of posts and wire for the vines to run upon. Place the 
posts between every third or fourth vine, and be sure to have strong 
end posts, well braced. Staple three strands of No. II galvanized wire 
to the posts. The lowest wire two feet from the ground and the other 
two fifteen inches apart. Allow but three or four canes to grow up 
from the most vigorous vines, and one or two canes from those of 
lesser growth. Break off' all other canes as they appear, so as to 
force all growth into the selected ones. As these grow up they should 
be loosely tied to the wires. If not tied up as soon as they reach th-e 
wires, many will be broken off by rains and winds. When the canes 
reach a foot beyond the top wires, about seven inches of the top 



SUMMER MEETING. 77 

should be broken off, in order to force the growth into the limbs or 
laterals, for on these the most and best fruit is produced the following 
season. These limbs or laterals should be allowed to grow at will. 

Third year — The leading canes left to grow the previous year are 
now pruned for fruit and should produce a full crop of grapes. Vines 
which have made a strong growth are allowed two or three canes and 
these are cut back to four or five feet in length. Less vigorous vines 
are confined to one or two canes. All other canes are cut back to two 
buds, which are then called " spurs," and these spurs furnish new canes 
for next year's fruiting. Those limbs or laterals on the canes which 
are strong enough, say of about the size of a lead pencil, are cut back 
to two buds. The canes, after pruning, should be securely tied to the 
wires, spreading them out fan shape, and curving the upper end of 
cane by tying it a foot or two horizontally along the middle or upper 
wire, according to the length of the cane. The cultivation of this and 
the succeeding years should be so regulated that through the blossom- 
ing period the vines can be left undisturbed, as a check to or undue 
stimulus of the growth through cultivation during this time may inter- 
fere with perfect fertilization, or setting of fruit. During the growing 
season carefully tie up all canes and limbs. Allow as many new canes 
to grow as in the previous season, with sometimes an extra one added* 
Eemove all superfluous suckers or sprouts as soon as they appear. 
These generally start from near the ground. Sometimes two canes 
start from one joint in which case the weaker is removed, as are also 
such which show no fruit, excepting, of course, the canes intended for 
next year's fruiting. The ends of all new canes are broken off, as in 
the preceding year, and the fruiting limbs are treated in the same way. 

Summer pruning has been abandoned by me as involving too much, 
and I might say, almost useless labor. Do not let your vines over- 
bear at any time, but especially not during the first crop year. It is 
like killing the goose that lays the golden eggs. If too much fruit has 
set, some of it should be removed, the smallest bunches being selected 
for this. As a guide for the beginner, I will say that 25 to 30 bunches 
is the limit for a strong vine to carry the first season, and weaker ones 
should be relieved in proportion. As the vines grow older and stronger, 
80 to 40, and even 50 bunches, are allowable on very strong vines. I 
have, on an arbor, a Concord vine which was deprived of 120 bunches 
before blossoming, and today, in counting those left, I found 130 bunches 
more which have set fruit. More than half of these will be taken off in 
a few days. 

The first crop of grapes is rarely attacked by rot and is also less 
liable to the attack of insects than older vines. But in the years fol- 



78 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

lowing it is advisable to spray with the Bordeaux mixture, as a pre- 
ventive of rot. For the amateur, or small grower, I advise bagging the 
grapes, which is a sure preventive of rot and also a bar to worms and 
birds. I do not include bees, because I have never seen a bee puncture 
a grape, nor attempt to, after hours of patient watching. They simply 
finish the work which other and stronger depredators have beguu. 
From the conformation of a bee's month, as seen through a microscope, 
I consider it a physical impossibility for them to cut or puncture the 
skin of a sound grape berry. As well might a child try to bite a hole in 
a rubber ball the size of an ordinary room. Bagging should be done 
here between the 6th and 12th of June. The proper time for other lo- 
calities I cannot give, but it should be done as soon as the berries 
range in size from squirrel to duck-shot. I find No. 2 ( or 2 pounds ) 
paper-bags to be the best size. These are slipped — extended — over the 
bunches, the tops gathered and then fastened with a pin or tied. Should 
the stem of the bunch of grapes be too short to fasten the bag around 
it, then tear open the top of the bag about two inches, and bring the 
ends together over the limb to which the bunch is attached. Some- 
times two bunches cpn be put into one bag. A small corner of each 
bag should be cut off, to allow the water, which, during a rain, often 
partially fills a bag, to escape. 

Fourth year — This is similar to that of the third year. The old 
wood which has borne fruit is cut off, and the canes which grew during 
the previous summer are pruned for bearing. This is called the 
renewal system, and for ordinary purposes is best, because easier to 
understand and less elaborate than other systems. It can be, and by 
me is often varied, by allowing the old wood to fruit several years, 
provided it furnishes enough laterals for fruit spurs. In such an 
event some of the surplus young canes are removed. The pruning 
and treatment after the fourth year is the same. Pruning can be done 
at any time after the leaves have fallen until the middle or end of 
March. 

The leading essentials to success in grape culture are : 

First — Thorough cultivation. 

Second — Proper pruning. 

Third — Good drainage. 

Fourth — Plenty of air and sunshine. 

To this may be added that a vine must not be overtaxed, nor 
should it be over-stimulated. Nature points the way, and where mis- 
cakes are made, they soon become apparent to those who keep their 
eyes open. Chas. Teubner, Lexington, Mo. 



SUMMER MEETING. 79 



DISOUSSION OF GRAPES. 

By Mr. Miller — I think we have planted our grapes too close. I 
planted my last vineyard 7 by 9, and if I planted another one, I would 
make it 8 by 10. From observation you will find that the vines at the 
end of the row are the best in the row, simply because they have more 
room. Where vines have failed in the row, you will find vines at the 
end of the row doing better than the others; I will plant vineyards 
hereafter 9 by 10 or 8 by 10 in the row. 

I would like to aisk Mr. Williams how he runs his vines up ; I 
plant a three wire tellis; used barb wire where I didn't have enough 
of the other, and I find it an advantage, because it holds the vines 
there. With the smooth wire, I don't care how well you tie your vines 
up, you let a storm come, and they will get all tangled up, and with the 
barb wire it is bound to stay, for it cannot slip more than two or three 
inches. 

By Mr. Williams — I wanted to draw Brother Miller out, out on that 
point. For the last three years I have not used anything in my vineyard 
except barb wire for trellises. My reason for so doing is when you use 
smooth wire the climbers or holders that hold to the wire grasp around 
it, the vine frequently grows up and lays over, and you haven't always 
the time to go and fix that vine the way you wish it to grow, and that vine 
that is lying over the wire is frequently the one you want to take care 
of, why ? Because the wind see-saws that vine, and in a few weeks it 
is so bruised where it lays over that wire that it is frequently no use 
to you. Use the barb wire and the vine will grasp around it and hold 
it there till the wind cannot move it. 

Mr. Zink — I would like to ask Mr. Miller to name the six best 
table grapes — three best red, three white and three black ? 

A. I would say, the Early Victor, Wonder and Concord, and 
white, Moore's Early, Niagara and Pockington. 

Mr. Chairman, I would like to correct Brother Miller, Moore's 
Early is a black grape. 

Mr. Miller — I mean Moore's Diamond. For red, I would say 
Brighton, Ruby and Woodruff. These are early and late ; the Wood- 
ruff is going to be the early grape pretty soon, it will take the place 
of the Catawba, and that is saying a good deal. 

Q. I would like to ask what is the matter with the Goethe ! 

A. It is not hardy enough, if it was, it would be one, but it is not 
hardy. 

Mr. Snodgrass — The Goethe with us is our finest red grape. 



80 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Q. The gentleman from Olden told as how many tons he produced, 
I would like to ask him what he realized off his thirty acres ? 

Mr. Saodgrass — I would say that my total crop averaged me about 
2^ cents net ; my wine grapes I sold for thirty dollars, I had eleven 
tons off of eight acres, eight thousand vines, my Moore's Early — the 
reason I advocate it, is because it is the earliest grape ; my Moore's 
Early netted me 4J cents per pound. 

Mr. I would like to state that my Moore's Early last until 

September, and I get for them about 4 cents per pound. 

Mr. Miller — I would recommend the planting of early grapes : fur- 
nish all the early grapes and we would at least have that gain over the 
eastern growers. They cannot send theirs here until ours are past, and 
Moor'e Early would be the best to plant. This year it is doing well for 
me for the first time. Heretofore it has not been very successful. 

Mr. Snodgrass — I would state further, in regard to Moore's Early, 
that from some ot my strong two-year-old Tines I gathered three 
baskets of grapes last year; second year from planting. 

Mr. Hopkins — I would like to ask if Judge Miller, or anyone else, 
has had any experience with a grape called the Jeweller? 

Mr. Miller — I have. It is all I could ask of a grape if I could 
grow it, but I can't grow it; it is not strong. 

Mr. Hopkins — About six years ago I paid 30 cents apiece for 10 
vines. Last year is the first I have had on it. It is a delightful grape ; 
early but not strong. 

Mr. Kelley — I would like to ask something about .a western grape, 
the Rose of Peru. They were never trellised, neither were they trained 
to a stake, but simply earthed up about 18 or 20 inches around the 
root of the vines. Those grapes can be grown without irrigation and 
produce in any required amount, I would like to know how yoa gen- 
tlemen in Missouri are going to raise grapes in competition with that 
latitude? 

Mr. Miller— Are those grapes ear^y as our grapes? 

A. They mature in August. 

Q. Have they ever been tried in Missouri? 

A. I cannot answer that. 

Mr. They have all told about those early grapes. What I 

want is something later, to back against those grapes that come in in 
October and November, and some almost to Christojas. We want 
something we can use for a late grape. I think we have all the early 
grapes we need. 

Mr. Miller — Plant Pocklington, Definance and Norton. The Norton 
is as good a grape as I want, and the Defiance will keep in the sacks. 



SUMMER MEETING. 81 

I have gathered them at Ghristmaa. It is a black grape and it is the 
finest late grape I have had, but the vine must be well cared for or it 
will not bear well. 

Mr. Murray— From the drift of this discussion it would eeem that 
those present are about to come to the conclusion that we have noth- 
ing either earlier or later than is grown east or west to take care of 
ourselves with. Now, Mr. President, I wish to propound this question : 
Now if the New York and Ohio people can grow the Concord grape 
and ship them westward, and grow them on land worth $200 per acre, 
and sell them out here as cheaply as they do, why is it that we can't 
grow them just as well on laud that don't cost one-tenth so much, or 
must we come to the conclusion that we cannot compete with the 
Yankees in the east or the sharpers in the West? They have brought 
it down to a system, and they have the most thorough system 
of growing, picking and handling, and they send them down here by 
the car-load, one car-load after another, and I have been told that 
if they net 3 cents per basket for the S-pound baskets they are making 
money. I think, gentlemen, if they can make money at 3 cents net on 
an 8-pound basket, I think we can live and make money by growing 
them here. 

Mr. Snodgrass— I would like to ask if they use cold storage, or if 
it is cool storage without the use of ice ? 

A. I cannot answer that question, but they certainly do hold them 
back nicely. 

Mr. Snodgrass — I have been told that grapes shipped in cold 
storage cars, when taken off the car fall off their stems and are not 
salable. I do not believe that it is practicable to put grapes in cold 
storage. I know South Water street merchants carry their grapes in 
the back part of their business houses for months, but there is no cold 
storage and it is simply cool. 

Mr. Murray — That would be much nicer and more simple. 

Mr. Barnes— I think Mr. Snodgrass is about right about that mat- 
ter ; I had a great many grapes in cold storage last fall, and there were 
not more than three or four varieties when we took them out after from 
three to six weeks ; that the loose grapes did not fall oft' and cover the 
plate, and I do not think you can keep them in cold storage, but I have 
seen them in stacks and stacks along Like Brie in cold storage ; they 
were picked and put in the baskets and they were never taken out 
from the time they were put in until the people out west here took 
them out, and the baskets are packed up there all around the walls, 
and I do not think there was anything there but atmospheric cold. I 

H_6 



82 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

think one trouble is that our grapes grow where it is too warm to keep 
them. 

I wish to speak a moment about the California grapes ; we have a 
man in Southern Kansas who has been trying the California grapes 
and he is well pleased with his success ; he had no faith in them at 
first, and some Californian sent them to him and now he is well pleased 
and finds them very fine, and he especially mentioned the Countess 
Seedless ; it is a seedless grape and one of the most delicious grapes 
he ever tried. I do not know what will be the result of that, but if 
we can raise those grapes in this latitude lets try it; these things are 
worth trying. 

Mr. — I would like to ask one question : if it is not the honey 

bee that destroys the grapes, what is it ? In Pennsylvania the grapes 
will ripen and hang on for weeks and months in good condition, while 
here they can hardly hang on until they get ripe until they are de- 
stroyed by something, the bees or yellow jackets. 

Mr. Miller — The yellow jackets, wasps and bees go after ; some- 
thing else has done the work; honey bees are the rear guard. 

Mr. Suodgrass— Honey bees have never bothered my grapes; 
bumble bees will. 

By Prof. Stedman — I have heard of a good many cases of honey 
bees working on grapes. I have never known of an actual case where 
honey bees punctured a grape ; the puncture is made by something 
else and the honey bee goes and sucks the juice, but from close ob- 
servation I have never been able to detect a honey bee in the act of 
making a puncture. 

I have a small vineyard and Mr. Snodgrass is close enough 

for his bees to go to it, and I have taken the pains to watch them very 
closely, and while my yard and orchard are covered with bees, I am 
confident that a honey bee never broke the skin on a grape, berry, ap- 
ple, peach, or anything else. 

Mr. Williams — I have made a close examination and scientific to 
the best of my ability as a farmer, and I will make this proposition 
that I will give one hundred dollars for the grape that a bee ever broke 
the hull upon. 

Q. I should like to ask the gentleman if he means all bees ? 

A. No, I mean the honey bee. 

What I was after was to get a preventive of this puncture of the 
grape. 

Mr. Zink — I am a bee crank, too, and I am glad to see the har- 
mony that exists between those interested in bees and those interested 




Q 

o 
o 



P5 
o 



o 

m 

w 

o 
w 






O) 



SUMMER MEETING. 83 

iu fruit. It has been settled for some time that the bee is undoubtedly 
a friend to the bee-grower instead of an eoemy. 

Mr. Howard — I would like to ask Mr. Miller how long the Con- 
cord will keep if you have it sacked ? 

I have never tried it ; I have seen so few of them ; they always 
get consumed before I can try them. I can keep the Defiance and 
Jefferson until after heavy frost and take them in sound and plump in 
sacks. While we are speaking of sacking, I have tried something 
simpler than the sacks ; it is to take a piece of paper, according to the 
size of your grapes, and cut a slit in one side to the middle and then 
fold this around the grapes ; the paper is to be circular in shape, and 
by pinning it there will form a kind of canopy. I hope some of you 
will try it. 



PROFITABLE PEACH GROWING. 

In looking over the program of this meeting sent me some time 
ago by our Secretary, I was somewhat surprised to find my name con- 
nected with it, the subject given me being "Profitable Peach Grow- 
ing." Now, in the outset, I will say my experience in profitable peach 
growing is very limited and I will be compelled, therefore, to confine 
my remarks to other phases of this branch of horticultural work. Yet 
while it is true that the very important requisite, that of profit, has not 
been experienced to any degree by myself thus far, still I am by no 
means without hope, for there is a facination about this work which for 
me is very strong and which spurs me on to increased effort whenever 
anything of the nature of a drawback appears. 

Anyone with a love for horticultural work, having cultivated the 
trees and harvested a crop of beautiful Elberta peaches in Missouri, is 
not easily discouraged. The borers that infest the roots of his trees 
will be dug out cheerfully. Log and bush heaps will be made in his 
orchards to be burned, when by careful and frequent nightly examina- 
tions of his thermometer he finds that his prospects are endangered 
by frost. More than these he will use every effort to overcome the 
various fungus enemies, which in their subtle and insidious attacks, 
threaten to destroy his trees. In one of these, ihe leaf curl, he will, 
in my opinion, find his greatest trouble. This disease is doing much 
damage in our orchards at Neosho. In one block containing 900 trees 
200 have either died or been ruined by it in the last 15 months. 

Trees, to all appearances, in a perfectly healthy condition last fall 
lire now almost destitute of leaves and dying rapidly; while others 
are effected on one side or in spots, other portions remain healthy, 



84 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

growing well and even bearing frait. These healthy portions will prob- 
ably be destroyed next season if the fungi should develop then. My 
efforts in the way of spraying for leaf curl have not been attended 
with success. Two applications were made this season, the first late 
in February and the other before the buds opened in March. Bor- 
deaux mixture was used and the work was thoroughly done. 

Since this disease first attracted my attention in our orchards, I 
have noticed it in several other orchards in the county and even on 
isolated trees. Some varieties seem to be exempt from its attacks thus 
far. Among ihem aie Elberta and Thnrber. Those most effected 
with us are Old Mixen, free and cling, Early York, Heath Cling and 
those of the Smock type. 

While I have not been successful in overcoming this disease, I 
trust that 1 may at this meeting learn wherein my mistake lay and 
correct it in the future. 

I am glad to be present with you here, if for nothing else than to 
bring this matter before the people of Missouri, for should the leaf 
curl develop generally over the State as it has in Newton county (and 
there is every reason to believe it will), it is high time that effective^ 
measures be taken to prevent it and that reliable information be freely 
distributed upon the subject. 

Now, in conclusion, I will say that the prospect for peaches in 
Southwest Missouri is splendid this season. The curculio seems to 
have done very little damage and all healthy trees are so loaded with 
fruit that before this Society meets again I hope to have had some ex- 
perience in profitable peach growing. 

F. H. Speakman. 



PEAR BLIGHT TO DATE. 

Whether it is possible or not to throw any further light upon this 
vexed and difficult subject in holticulture, it is at least worth while to 
condense in a brief statement the results of the latest investigations 
concerning its cause and the prevention of it. 

The writer has for years done some personal work in this direc- 
tion, and has at the same time made use of all the information he 
could obtain concerning the researches of others into this subject. 
It is now definitely determined that pear blight is a contagious bac- 
terial disease specially affecting pears and also some other kindred 
fruit trees. The microbe is very minute. It was discovered by Prof. 
T. J. Burrill in 1879, and its scientific name is Bacillns Amylovorous. 
The microbe feeds chiefly upon the inner bark, especially upon the 



SUMMER MEETING. 85 

fresh cambium layer. It begins its work at the time of blossoming, 
the microbes living in the nectar of the blossom, whence they are dis- 
ttibuted by bees and other insects, so that if a few early blossoms are 
affected the insects will scatter the disease from flower to flower and 
tree to tree until it becomes epidemic in the orchard. 

The microbe may enter at the blossom and then run downward on 
the branches, but in young trees they often enter the tips of growing 
shoots and then run downward, producing what is sometimes called 
twig blight. 

The extent of the ravages of this microbe generally are only an 
inch or two a day, but sometimes reaches as much as one foot. The 
more rapid the growth of the shoot of the pear twig and the softer its 
tissues, the greater the injury. So such rapidly growing varieties as 
Bartlett or Glappa' Fiivorite suffer worse than the hardier, slower 
growing varieties of Duchess and Keifer. 

Warm, moist weather is favorable to blight ; cool, dry weather 
unfavorable. Most of the damage done is in a month or two follow- 
ing bloom, but young trees may be attacked at any time during the 
summer. 

The signs of the presence of the microbe are the turning of the 
bark of the extremities dark brown color, and a more or less shrivel- 
ing of the bark. A few days later the leaves biacken or brown, but 
remain for some weeks attached to the tree. All the parts of the 
tree below the point reached by the blight are healthy, no more injury 
resulting than if the blighted parts had been girdled. 

It has been proved by experiments made by Mr. M. B. Waite, 
assistant in the United States Department of Agriculture (see Year 
Book for 1895, page 295), that the microbe lives through the winter in 
the bark of the tree, and that even freezing winter temperature will 
not destroy it. On the other hand, very dry weather and cessation of 
growth in the tree furnishes conditions unfavorable even for their life. 

Such in brief are the conditions which produce the disease. What 
now are the remedies ? Can anything be introduced into the life of 
the tree which will be unfavorable to the propagation and destructive 
ravages of this microbe ! 

In the dozen years or more of pear culture in my own experience, 
I have used unsparingly the knife. Watching the trees from day to 
day during spring and summer, I have cut or sawed off the affected 
part and any branch affected, and at once carried it to the stove and 
burned it or else built a fire in the garden or orchard for immediate 
burning, never allowing an affected twig to reiniin 24 hours without 
cutting. 



86 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

I have at the same time liberally used wood ashes sometimes 
mixed with common salt for fertilizers. While ia one or two cases 
trees were considerably injured by the blight, in ten years I have never 
lost a tree, and in the last two or three years of cultivation of the or- 
chard with which I had most to do no signs of blight were visible. I 
should add, however, that my experience has been in Massachusetts 
and New York, not in Missouri. 

But Mr. Waite, in the report already alluded to, holds that trees 
highly manured with barnyard manure and other nitrogenous feitilizers 
are especially liable to the disease, and that overstimulation with fertil- 
izers is to be avoided. My own theory is that potash tends to stimu- 
late fruit, but thiX barnyard manure tends to great growth of wood. 

Mr. Waite also thinks that pruning in winter time increases tend- 
ency to blight since it pushes the tree to make a great growth of wood 
which is tender and so nourishes the microbe. Much tillage has the 
same effect, says Mr. Waite, and he suggests that plowing between 
the trees early in the spring and then seeding or sowing to grain, or 
else plowing the middle of the space between the rows, will produce 
the whole, the best results. Every tree of the Pome family is liable 
to the blight. Pears are effected most, but the quince, apple, crab- 
apple, mountain ash, and all the hawthorns are found with it. 

The only sure remedy is cutting and burning diseased branches. 
This should be done in the fall before the leaves grow dry, then early 
in the spring as soon as the blossoms appear, and again at intervals of 
two or three weeks through the summer. Never allow an inch of a dis- 
eased twig to remain for an hour on the tree. Eternal vigilance is the 
only method of success. 

Homer T. Fuller, President Drury College, Springfield, Mo. 



DISCUSSION ON PEACHES. 

By Mr. Murray — The Champion suits me best ; had three bushels 
to the tree last year, and have good crop this year. It is a free stone. 
As a rule the yellow varieties are not so hardy in fruit or wood as the 
white. The old Smock has made me the most money of the yellow 
varieties. It is no trouble to' sell peaches in North Missouri at 50 
cents to $1.50 per bushel. Men come from Iowa with wagons for the 
fruit. 

By Sec. Goodman — I would not grow a single one of the earliest 
varieties. Plant Mountain Rose, E.irly York, Family Favorite, Elberta, 
Salwayand Mixen, which ripen in the order named, giving a season 
up to October. Have a succession of varieties and have an under- 



SUMMER MEETING. • 87 

standing with dealers so they can depend on you. It is important to 
establish hardy varieties, which can be done. The Experiment Station 
is working on this line. Don't let your trees overbear. 

Mr. U. S. Helvern, of Mammoth Spring, Ark., said he had ripe 
peaches Jane 5th this year, which were good keepers and carried well. 

Discussion on leaf curl was resumed. Prof. Whitten advised 
severe prunuing early in spring and spraying. In California the dis- 
ease has been controlled by spraying three weeks before the buds start 
and again just as they do start. Use Bordeaux mixture with lime. 
Cutting trees back now will help the tree to outgrow the leaf curl. 
Same treatment will do for plum pocket. 

By Mr. Speakman — The leaf curl is doing great damage at Neosho. 
Trees cut back in winter are suflferiag. 

By Prof. Whitten — Cut the growing twigs. 

By Sec. Goodman — To cut the tree while growing would ruin the 
tree. The reports of advantage of pruning new growth must have 
been wrong. 

By Col. Evans — We have never lost a tree from leaf curl. We 
give all our trees wood ashes every year. For a bad case take lie, 
boiling hot, made from wood ashes, and pour it over the roots, and in 
ten days you will have a well tree. 

The following are the formulas given by Mr. Stedman : 

For peach and plum trees for biting insects — Arsenate of soda, 4 
ounces ; acetate of lead, 11 ounces ; water, 100 gallons. 

Kerosene emulsion, for sucking insects — Hard soap, one-half 
pound ; boiling soft water, i gallon ; kerosene, 2 gallons. Churn ten 
minutes and add 19 gallons of water. 

For biting inspects, except on peach and plum trees, where yon 
cannot use Paris green — Paris green, 1 pound ; fresh lime, 3 pounds ; 
water, 50 to 175 gallons. 

Bordeaux mixture for spraying — Copper sulphate, 4 pounds ; fresh 
lime, 6 pounds ; water, 50 gallons. 



Wednesday, 8 p. m. 
Music — String quartette. 



HOW TO MAKE A LAWN. 

In its strictest meaning, a lawn is a stretch of grass around a 
place, or intermingled with trees and shrubs; but in a broader or more 
complete sense it embraces the trees and shrubs themselves. The 



88 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

subject will be briefly treated from both staDdpointgi, but especially 
from the first, as upon its success depends the future appearance of 
the whole surroundings. Prof. Bailey aptly suggests (Bulletin 121, 
Cornell Experiment Station, September, 1896), "that if a landscape is 
a picture, it mast have a canvas. This canvas is the greensward; 
upon this the artist paints with tree, and brush, and flower, the same 
as the painter does upon his canvas with brush and pigments." 
Furthermore, the bare ground is the rough, unpainted canvas, the 
greensward, the painted background, which, together with properly 
arranged ornamentals, forms the picture. Without a proper back- 
ground the painting would not be effective, neither would a back- 
ground be attractive without the picture — both are eminently im- 
portant. 

The first thing to be done in the preparation of an ideal lawn is 
grading. The mode of operation will depend largely upon the condi- 
tion of individual places and to some extent upon individual taste. 
If the area is naturally undulating, it will only be necessary to smooth 
over the rough portions, but if level a better appearance is often 
secured by giving a little slope, except in very small lots. If there is 
too much difference in elevation it should be modified accordingly, 
the amount depending on the size of the place and natural surround- 
ings. In either case the area should slope from all sides of the resi- 
dence to a greater or less distance, merging gradually into the general 
trend. Abrupt changes should be avoided as much as possible, 
though terraces are necessary when the location is on a steep side 
hill, in which case they should be kept near the house or along the 
side of the lot. In general, the grading should be done in such a way 
that all surface water will be evenly distributed, so as not to form 
numerous runs which may cause miniature washouts. 

It is unncQessary to speak of drainage, as this is only required in 
places where water is liable to stand a portion of the year. 

Preparation of the ground, however, is supremely important. If 
the soil is poor, it should be thoroughly enriched by a liberal appli- 
cation of well rotted manure, bone meal, wood ashes, or other good 
fertilizer. 

The use of manure is attended with considerable danger of bring- 
ing in foul seed ; otherwise it is one of the best fertilizers. The ground 
should be plowed or spaded not less than eight inches deep, removing 
all stones and other like material, and the surface made as smooth as 
possible. All is now ready for seeding. 

One of the best mixtures for a lawn is four parts Kentucky blue 
grass (Poa pratensis), with one part of white clover (Trifoliu?)i repens)^ 



SUMMER MEETING. 8D 

sown at the rate of five bushels per acre. T have seen equally good 
results with red top ( Agrostis vulgaris) in place of Kentucky blue 
grass ; also with equal parts of red top and Kentucky blue grass, with 
about two pounds of white clover to a bushel of the former. When 
moisture conditions are favorable the Kentucky blue grass forms a 
softer and prettier greensward than red top, but does not appear to en- 
dure drouth as well. Agaiu, red top has a tendency to form bunches, 
unless growing very thick. From these observations it appears that 
more or less sheltered situations, where the full rays of the sun does 
not penetrate and where the ground does not quickly dry out, the blue 
grass and winter clover mixture is unquestionably the best, but in more 
exposed situations a mixture of equal parts of blue grass and red 
top, with a little white clover, is preferable, as it is much more cer- 
tain to withstand drouth. Rhode Island bent grass (Agrostis cannia) 
has also been recommended for this purpose. The quality of the seed 
selected is of more importance than the selection of any of these vari- 
ities. Absolutely pure seed is often difficult and even impossible to 
procure, yet nothing but the highest grade should be accepted. 

It is impossible to give the best time for sowing a lawn, as the 
weather cannot be predicted far enough in advance. Different plots 
of grass have been successfully grown when planted any month in the 
year except January and February, and at other times they have been 
absolute failures when treated in the same manner. The most frequent 
failures appear to be where the seed was planted in autumn, and not 
having time to much more than germinate before severe winter 
weather began, much of the grass is winter-killed. One of the most 
satisfactory results with a lawn that ever came under my observation 
was one planted last December. 

None of the seed germinated until spring when it all came evenly 
and now bears the appearance of a well-formed turf. Some of this 
year's planting will ultimately be as satisfactory, though not as far ad- 
vanced ; and that sown since April 1st is much better than what was 
planted previous to that time. Some recommend sowing about mid- 
summer, and by winter it will have made sufficient growth lo endure 
the severe weather, the only objection being the greater liability of 
drouth during this season of the year. 

After the lawn is sown, careful attention should immediately be 
given, first to rolling and afterwards watering. The ground should not 
be allowed to become very dry, and when watered should bethorougly 
soaked. Rolling should continue every few days after the grass is up, 
and should be done immediately after watering. Mowing should follow 
aX regular intervals, never letting the grass get beyond control of the 



90 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

lawn mower. After the lawn is well established, the further applica- 
tion of some fertilizer annually, or, at farthest, every alternate season^ 
is essential, using auy of those employed in the original preparation of 
the soil. Each possesses the same relative value with the possible ex- 
ception of manure which has the additional objection of being un- 
sightly while on the lawn. Bone meal at the rate of 600 pounds per 
acre is especially good for this purpose. While it does not act as 
quickly, the important objections to the use of manure are avoided. 
In applying bone meal, I like to mix it with about an equal bulk of 
clean soil and let the mixture stand three or four days to slightly fer- 
ment, when it seems to act more quickly on the sod. 

Lawns are often made by sodding with turf brought from other 
places. This is desireable for immediate effVct when the expense is 
not an item, and often with better results than sowing seed, where per- 
fectly clean sod may be had. Moreover, sodding is quite essential on 
terraces or other abruptly rolling places where the soil is liable to 
wash down before a turf is formed. It is a good plan to have clean 
cut sod for edging along the walks. The ground is prepared the same 
for sodding as for seeding. The sods are cut in convenient sizes and 
about one and a half inches thick. The ground should be sprinkled 
just before the sod is laid and again immediately after. 

But little need be said concerning the planting of ornamentals. 
The many conditions that must be taken into consideration makes it 
difficult to formulate even very general rules. The extent and contour 
of the grounds, the style of the residence and natural and artificial 
surroundings are all of vital importance to the harmonious arrange- 
ment of the whole. The selection of varieties is of secondary im- 
portance. More frequently many of our common native plants might 
be utilized, and may often be procured for the mere labor of trans- 
planting. Taking a specitic example, such as a narrow city lot, with 
only a rod or two of ground in front of the residence, is too small for 
a large growing tree, though one or two should be planted in the street 
in front of the lot. In such a place 1 should only plant some low- 
growing hedges, such as California Privet ( Ligustrum Ibota) around 
the sides, and one or two small, solid clumps of shrubs, or moderately 
growing herbaceous plants, banked against the porch, at the side the 
steps or the corner of the residence, with some climbers, such as ivy, 
clematis, climbing bittersweet, morning glory, hyacinth bean or cypress 
vine, over the porch or a portion of the residence and on any unsightly 
fence that may surround the lower 

In the rear yard the walk leading to the alley should be narrow 
and at one side. A few shade trees should be planted, together with a 



SUMMER MEETING. 91 

narrow, irregular strip along the sides of whatever shrubs and herbs 
best suits the taste. These should be just far enough apart to make a 
solid mass when full grown, planting larger ones in the background, 
gradually dropping toward the front with various smaller plants. The 
amount that can be planted in such a place is surprising, and still have 
room for plenty of grass in the center. 

A farmer's lawn is usually much more spacious than so many of 
the narrow city lots. In fact, it may be compared with the large city 
places, upon which hundreds and even thousands of dollars have been 
expended, and yet a farmer's lawn may be made as attractive with a few 
dollars' worth of labor and material, and much less attention is usually 
required in preserving it. The ideal arrangement of such a place re- 
quires the skill of a landscape artist, a title which I cannot claim. The 
residence is, or should be, situated some distance back from the high- 
way, giving room in front for several shade trees and clumps of shrub- 
bery. These should be arranged to cover unsightly objects, whether 
far or near, and at the same time preserve desirable views from some 
of the most prominent positions. In general it is best not to scatter 
the trees in all parts of the lawn, but keep in groups and have at least 
one large open space with various nooks or retreats and places that 
afford dense shade as well as the bright sunshine. The location of 
walks and driveways is an important feature. There should be no more 
of either than will constantly be used and both should extend directly 
toward the place to which they lead and not in a roundabout way, not 
necessaiily in a straight line, but with a gentle curve around and be- 
tween clumps of shrubbery. As a rule it is best to have but a single 
driveway leading from the road past one side of the residence and back 
to the stable, with a small circle between the residence and stable on 
which to turn. There may be places where a double gateway with a 
driveway curving from one to the front of the residence and back to 
the other, with a branch running back to the stables would be prefer- 
able, but I think they are few. A walk in such a place is much more de- 
sirable than a driveway. 

Between the small city lot and this more spacious one there are 
infinite gradations, each requiring special consideration, for which I 
have not time, space or talent. 

H. 0. Irish, Missouri Botanical Garden. 



92 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



ADDRESS BY PRESIDENT JESSE OF MISSOURI STATE UNI- 
VERSITY. 

When Missouri State University was founded, even Chicago, 
that great city by the unsalted sea, that claims like Melchisedec of old, 
to have neither beginning of days or end of life, was only then seven 
years old, but even in knee-breeches stage it was putting on those 
boastful airs which has characterized it ever since. Texas, now the 
largest State in the American Union, was then an independent govern- 
ment by itself, while New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Nevada and Cali- 
fornia all belonged to Mexico. They were ail foreign territory. Kansas, 
even now the bolder wild people, still wilder then, was not admitted to 
the Union until twenty-one years afterwards. In fact, the only states 
west of the Mississippi river were Louisiana, Arkansas and Grand Old 
Missouri. 

Among our public men the illustrious Benton in the twentieth 
year of his service in the Senate, was covering with glory the name of 
Missouri. 

Henry Clay and Daniel Webster were in the prime of life, and 
Washington were leading to victory the old Whig party, of which the 
younger members of this meeting know only by history. 

William Henry Harrison, owner of Grandfather's Hat, which you 
see in the cartoons in the newspaper, was in theact of becoming Presi- 
dent of the United States. 

The Democratic party after holding under one name and another 
the reigns of government for forty years, was on the eve of overthrow. 

Calhoun and Benton and Jackson, whose names shall live forever 
in the annals of Democratic statesmanship, were working like tigers to 
save their party, but it was written in the Book of Fate that they were 
to triumph, and so they did. As for the Republican party, it was not 
born, or even dreamed of. Mr. Lincoln was only thirty-one years of 
age. General Grant was only a stripling of eighteen, and Grover Cleve- 
land, the mighty of girth now, was at that time only in kilts, and as to 
William McKinley, our President now, it had not entered into the 
hearts of men to even conceive of hira. 

In such a time was our University founded, the only exception 
from the Alleghany mountains to the sea, except Indiana and Michigan. 
She was granted 60,000 acres of ground on the condition that she 
establish and maintain a seminary of learning ; much of the ground 
upon which Westport and Kansas City now stand belonged to this 



SUMMER MEETING. 93 

original Federal land grant. The founders of the University, the men 
who laid the corner stone, were not favored with the gift of prophecy, 
for they sold the land that Kansas City is now on for $00,000. Kansas 
City owes the University a handsome endowment in some way. 

Starting with this endowment of 60,000 acres of land, the Uni- 
versity has grown 57 years to nearly a million and a quarter of dollars, 
the largest interest-bearing endowment possessed by any State Uni- 
versity on the continent of America, excepting California alone. Michi- 
gan and Indiana are " not in it " as the boys say. 

The University has received since that time a variety of gifts from 
the Federal government. One in 1870, that is to say, one that was 
made effectual in 1870, for the foundation of the Agricultural college, 
another in the form of an annuity under the Hatch act, and still another 
in the form of an annuity also under the Sigel act, so it is hard to say, 
as we review the history of the institution, whether it owes more to 
the State than to the Federal government, or more to the Federal gov- 
ernment than to the State. It owes much to both. The growth of the 
University since that time has been very great ; it has added on in 
these 57 years professional departments of law, medicine, engineering, 
military science, agriculture, entomology and last but not least, under- 
graduate studies ; it has now, starting fifty-seven years ago with one 
department, it has now eight of which two are chiefly academical, and 
the other six strictly professional. 

Since 1891 the growth in the University has been almost marvelous ; 
if I should tell you of its growth in that time, you will think I am afraid, 
that I am boasting, but there is no reason why I should boast ; the Uni- 
versity as an institution has grown, I am the same size I was in 1890. 
In six and one-half years, not quite six and a half, the High schools 
with the University has been increased 150 per cent, while the quality 
has been immensely increased. The enrollment of students has in- 
creased 42 per cent if you compare absolute numbers of today with 
the numbers of six and one half years ago, and in comparing 1897 with 
1891, you deduct the preparatory classes, which do not exist now, and 
the growth in students has been 120 per cent. In six and one-half years 
the annual income of the University, even in spite of the desperately 
small appropriation of our General Assembly, has increased eighty per 
cent, the interest-bearing endowm^t has grown one hundred and 
twenty per cent, and buildings more than double the number whether 
you count them or measure the floor space, have been greatly improved 
in every convenience and adaptation to their purpose. Some branches 
have been wholly created, while in law, in agriculture, in horticulture, 
mechanical arts and in the sciences t^e institution has "been so greatly 



94 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

improved and so enlarged as to make, its in these directions, practically 
a new University. 

All this has been accomplished, you must remember, and Missouri 
should take pride in it for it is their University, in six and one-half 
years, in spite of a bad fire that destroyed well nigh all the buildings 
and equipments that had been accumulated. 

In spite of four years of the hardest times that ever afflicted the 
people of this State and last but not least, in spite of very small appro- 
priations from the 38th and 89th General Assemblies, if these two 
Legislatures had done their duty by the University as faithfully as did 
the 36th and 37th, the record of recent growth in the University as 
great as it is, would have been far greater, but I am glad to tell you 
that in spite of its enemies, and hinderances, and in spite of all its mis- 
fortunes the University of your State stands today, for the amount of 
its endowment in buildings and equipments, the foremost institution 
of learning from the Mississippi river to the Sierra-Nevada Mountains. 
I wish that I could give that statement to the sea of Japan again, but 
California stops me on the crest of the mountains. 

I should tell you that the students come from all counties of the 
State, and they come moreover from 38 states and territories of our 
own land, and from four foreign countries. 

The reputation of your University is universal; it is well known 
among all the people engaged in higher education ; well known from 
the lakes to the gulf, and from ocean to ocean. But I should fall below 
the institution, standing before an audience as intelligent as this one 
should I talk about only one institution should that even be your own 
State University. For what I have said I wish to make no sort of an 
apology here or hereafter ; if I were representing a private institution 
of my own 1 would not try to stand before a Horticultural Society of 
this State or any other state ; if I were representing a college of some 
denomination or order. Masonic or Odd Fellows or something of that 
kind, I should be presuming upon your kindness to talk about that 
institution, but this is the University of the State of Missouri and you 
are Missourians, with the welcome addition of our friends from Kansas 
and Iowa and a few other states, but the bulk of the audience consists 
of Missourians, and this is the University of the State of Missouri. It 
does not belong to me ; I have no more right in it than any one of the 
three million six hundred thousand people that belong to this State; I 
have just as much right as you have there and no more, so far as my 
proprietary right is concerned, therefore, I shall not apologize for 
standing before any Missouri audience, intelligent and interested in 



SUMMER MEETING. 96 

education and telling them of their State University, bat it is impor- 
tant that we look at something else besides one institution. 

I take it for granted you want to hear from me about education, 
and education a little more broadly than it is found in any one institu- 
tion. 

It is a subject of gratitude, a fact for which we cannot be too 
:gratefal that college education of good grade is obtainable in a large 
number of places ; it is obtainable in our State as well as in other 
states; as well in the East as in the West; at great and small ex- 
pence — very cheap at Columbia; obtainable under the different denomi- 
nations; you have a very admirable institution here, of which you 
«houId all be proud. 

We should be thankful that the Providence of God has made it 
possible for the young man and woman to get a good education in at 
least seven or eight places in this State. The most important thing 
for people to do is to get a college education somewhere. I speak to 
you as people who consider in one way or another the destinies of 
young men and young women ; it is, in my opinion, one of the most 
important things for a young man or young woman to do, to secure at 
all hazards, provided only honest means be used, a good college edu- 
cation somewhere. 

Americans are always prone to ask practical questions, and some- 
times ask, does a college education really pay ? I have been asked that 
question a thousand times and always answer "Yes it does." Probing 
will show that that question always means this : "Does it help a man 
to make money f Does it raise him to prominence in the eyes of the 
world? In other words, does it lead to high living, fine clothes and 
delicate f. asting and champagne? I protest against any such estima- 
tion of education as this, but yet I am willing to put it on the lowest 
grounds and answer, yes it does pay. It is true some millionaires 
have made their millions without any education, but for every one of 
such millionaires I can point you to thousands of boot-blacks who 
have not any education or any fortune either. 

If you will collect in one bunch all those who have been educated 
at college and in another bunch all those who have not been educated 
at college, I will warrant that the average wealth of the first class will 
be greater than that of the second class ; I will warrant that the mor- 
ality of the first, I will warrant that the health of the first and that the 
social position of the first class will be, on an average, better than the 
second one. Or let us make it three classes : first, those that were 
educated in college, then those that were educated in high school — not 
in college — and third, those that were not educated in either high school 



96 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

or college, and I will grant that the average wealth in the first will be 
greater than in that of the second, and in the second greater than the 
third ; so that if yon compare them in respect to health or morality, in 
respect to religion, in respect to prominence, or in respect to any other 
good thing on earth you will find similar results. Yes, from the lowest 
point of view education does pay. 

The history of our country will show how much we owe to college 
men. I will show you a few things that ought to prove interesting to 
any intelligent audience, and certainly I am standing before an intel- 
ligent audience tonight. 

The Declaration of Independence, which is the corner stone of 
our country, which had as its mission the emancipation of the human 
race, was written by a college bred man, by a graduate of old William 
and Mary in Virginia. Of the men that signed that document it would 
be surprising if you would examine into the question how many had 
been in college. Take the men who framed the constitution of these 
United States, how many of them were college bred — you can usually 
find a list of them in any college library — and then find out where they 
were educated, and it is astonishing to see how many of the men wha 
controlled that were college bred. Take the Supreme Court of the 
United States and you will find that men who have dominated were 
bred in college. 

It is impossible for us as a nation — equally as impossible as a 
State — to escape the college bred man ; he has lain his hand on the 
State and nation and his impress is on our history. 

If yon will take the records of the army and navy you will find 
that few of our great soldiers of land or sea have ever reached emi- 
nence without passing first through the U. S. Military Academy at 
West Point and on through at Annapolis. 

I know full well that people are fond of pointing to George Wash- 
ington and Abraham Lincoln, both mighty men, as examples of what 
men can do with little schooling. Yes, they had very little school- 
ing, neither of them ever rubbed the whitewash off the walls, even 
with their elbows, but, my friend, that will do you no good, very little 
good unless the Almighty has made you like George Washington and 
Abraham Lincoln. The Almighty does sometimes make a man so great 
that he reaches eminence of no low creation, but those men are few 
and far between in the history of the world. In new countries men 
are dependent upon the qualities within them, but as people advance 
in civilization, opportunity becomes smaller and competition becomes 
greater; the chances for success in life were much greater in the days 
of George Washington than in those of Abraham Lincoln, greater in 



SUMMER MEETING. 97 

those of Lincoln than they are now, greater now than when these 
young raen and women reach my age, and I am far from being old. 

If you wish to see what we are coming to in this country, cast 
your eye upon Europe. There the competition is so great, opportunity 
is so small that men cannot get to the front at ail without superior 
natural abilities and without superior education. It takes superior 
ability magnificently educated to get to the top. So it will be here be- 
fore any of these younger ones reach the age of three score years and 
len. There are men to-day in prominent positions who could not reach 
the same prominence twenty years hence with their present equip- 
ment. 

It seems to me that as our State moves forward in material pro- 
gress, that the demand for education is going to become greater and 
greater ; fathers should remember that their sons will have a harder 
struggle for success than they have had, and every father, it seems to 
me, should strive to give his son that advantage which comes through 
education. President Wing, of Cleveland, who hasn't a great deal to 
do, as I have, and hence has time to work up all sorts of statistics for 
others who are busy men to use, has calculated that of all the college 
graduates in this country, from the earliest statesman down to the 
present day, including foot ball enthusiasts and spider-legged dudes, 
that one out of every forty has reached such prominence as to have a 
sketch of his life put in Appleton's Encyclopaedia of American Bio- 
graphy, whereas in all the other men of this present century, from the 
earliest statesman to the present time, but one out of ten thousand has 
reached such prominence. 

I have used figures, and they are correct, but should you throw 
them away and say that one in four hundred, instead of one in forty, 
and for those who havn't been been in college, say one in .four thou- 
sand, instead of ten thousand, and still the figures show that college 
education does pay ; it secures to the young reasonable prominence, 
modest wealth, usefulness and character in life. There never was a 
time in the history of our country when the need was greater than it 
is to today for really strongly educated men. It cannot be denied that 
more than half, at least half, of the wealth of our country, is possessed 
by less than one thousand men. Sneer who may, for I know some 
would sneer at such a statement, but it cannot be denied that the 
rich are growing relatively richer and the poor are growing relatively 
poorer, and that is a statement that no sneer will dismiss, and if pres- 
ent tendencies are not suppressed, it will be worse twenty years from 
now than it is today. It can not be denied that the pools, trusts and 

H--7 



98 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

combinations that people are forming today are a nuisance and should 
be resisted by every manly man. 

On the other hand, when we turn to the poor, and there are men 
upon men to turn to, the prospect is scarcely if at all more comfort- 
ing ; they are becoming animated by a spirit of revolution and want, 
not only toward the pools and trust sand corporations that had robbed 
them in many instances, but toward all capitalists and all corporations 
indiscriminately and blindly. Here then are the forces of destruction 
blindly patient ; on the other hand are the masses, and between them 
stand a thoughtful, conservative, patriotic class that is, in my opinion^, 
the hope of the country. 



Recitation — Jack and Gill, by Miss Emma Evans. 



THE SCHOOL OF HORTICULTURE. 

Paper read before the State Horticultural Society. 

The first class of the School of Horticulture at the University 
thoroughly agree with Mr. Goodman when he said in one of his re-> 
ports : " In the realm of labor or professions there is nothing so fas- 
cinating as the study of Horticulture." I wish more of the young 
people of Missouri had attended the lecture and practicums last win- 
ter and received with us the inspiration from work and association with 
our instructors. 

Too many of the bojs and girls growing up on the farm see noth- 
ing of the pleasures of such a life. The beauties around them are lost 
and the insects and plants appear only as " bugs" and weeds to be 
gotten rid of, or as plants that should be tended for their money value. 
The life in the flower is lost to them. 

"A primrose by the river's brim 
A yellow primrose was to him, 
And It was nothing more." 

What wonders botany, the study of plant breeding, cross pollina- 
tion, floriculture and landscape gardening would reveal. Nature would 
mean more to them, and the farm would become a world for study, and 
they might say with Tennyson : 

" Little flower, If I could understand 

What you are, root and all, all In all, 

I would understand what God and man Is." 

Not only the plant life, but the insects with their varying forms, 
their habits of life and characteristics would be of interest. A bene- 
ficial insect would not be destroyed, because it happened to be a " bug" 



SUMMER MEETING. 99 

or worm. The wonderful transformations going on about ua every day 
in the insect world are well worth our time and thought. 

We need a thought of the interesting and beautiful in life to make 
lighter the hard burdens men must bear, and if the study of the plants 
and insects for the pleasure to be derived from it will make farm life 
more attractive it should be given a proper place on the farm. How- 
ever, in our work last winter the practical side of Horticulture was 
ever first. The insects were studied for the protection of our fruits 
and gardens with the best methods of destroying injurious ones. The 
lectures on the nature and life history of the different fungi gave us 
the reason for our work in spraying and destroying the diseased fruit, 
while landscape gardening and iloriculture will help us in improving 
our farms and the country around, as the planting of trees and other 
ornamentals is becoming a practical question in many sections of the 
country. 

A subject which interested me was plant propagation and its rela- 
tion to the improvement of our fruits and garden produce, and the 
different methods employed were spoken of by different lecturers. 
The experimental station is doing what it can to improve our fruits by 
selecting the best for grafts and buds as well as seed, and also by cross- 
pollination. Every horticulturist should understand this work, and as 
far as possible, aid in carrying it on. In our orchards, for example, 
there are trees that bear superior fruit and yield abundantly ; we could 
expect better trees grown from scions taken from those trees than 
from those taken from trees having inferior quality of fruit. In our 
vines and berries we know there is a choice. Then why not try propa- 
gating from the best instead of going haphazard as is usually done? 

The nuseryman, to whom this work naturally belongs, meets with 
too much competition to carry it on to any great extent, so it has fallen 
to the horticulturist to carry on this most interesting work. We have 
heard how much the perfection of our fruit depends on cross-pollina- 
tion, and if he could follow farther and grow the seed we might, in 
time, by proper cross-pollination produce wonderful results. 

A month spent in nursery work not only gave us a glimpse of 
what the nurseryman does, but how the fruit-grower can apply it to his 
own home. We studied enough of the nature of the plants to under- 
stand why so many of these wonders of which the traveling salesman 
tell could not be expected to come true to the description. The nature 
of grafting and budding was explained, together with work in the graft- 
ingroom. We were told of the proper care of the plant, not only in 
the nursery row, but on its way to the farm and after the buyer has it in 
his own hands. The farmer, often through his own ignorance, loses his 



100 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Dureerystock, and then the blame rests upon the nurseryman. We 
found there was a difference in roots and the method of treatment 
they should receive, and what stock was best adapted to many sections 
of Missouri. 

These lectures prepared the way for the work in orcharding and 
small fruit. It is surprising how few people really understand the 
nature of the different plants enough to transplant them properly. It 
is often asked why it is so hard to make our trees grow. Especially is 
this true of our ornamentals ; and if the facts were known the roots 
may have dried, the tree have been injured iu some way, or, as is often 
the case, the trouble is in the planting, i^ature does her best to pro- 
tect her children, but man in his ignorance abuses them. 

We learned many other mistakes made in the care of our orchards 
as we followed the tree from the nursery, saw it properly planted, and 
learned the care it should receive from year to year until the profitable 
season is past. The small fruit, as well as the orchards, were thoroughly 
discussed. Our afternoons we spent in pruning and studing the fruits. 
One practicum, which was especially inter<^8ting, we spent in a model 
orchard a few miles out of the city. 

During our last month we had lectures and work in market garden- 
ing. The vegetables themselves were discussed and we saw how many 
of them grew in the hot-house and hot-beds. If more of our horticul- 
turists realized how inexpensive a simple hot-bed is, and understood 
the care of one, many would indulge in them. 

It was not altogether the knowledge we gained last winter that 
was of benefit to us, but we gained in enthusiasm and love for the work 
in horticulture. It means much to a student to be under instructors 
who are thoroughly interested in their chosen profession. 

Perhaps it would be of interest to know a little of the influence the 
Horticultural school exerted last winter. During February a young 
man came to take a few weeks' work in landscape gardening. He 
attended the lectures on orcharding and small fruit and became so 
interested in the work that he stayed several weeks longer than he had 
planned for. After leaving the University he bought a farm which he 
is setting out to fruit. The only lady that took the dairy course came 
into the lectures the last of February and instead of the dairy farm she 
is helping in the work of a fruit farm. 

Missouri is the first State to open a School of Horticulture in her 
Agricultural College, and the success of the school depends on the sup- 
port given it by her people. When one sees the neglected orchards 
and the many farms without fruit for family use over our State he needs 
no farther proof of a need of such a school. And even those who 



SUMMER MEETING. 101 

have had experience in horticulture cannot fail to receive great benefit 
from the work, in the broader view it will give them rf horticulture 
and their own State. Emma J. Park, Springfield, Mo. 



STUDIES IN POLLINATION. 

During the past two years the Experiment Station has been car- 
rying on experiments to ascertain what varieties of our cultivated 
fruits are self-fertilizing and which ones need cross-pollination in order 
to produce fruit. While the work is only fairly begun, some points of 
interest have already been developed, and we are now ready to answer 
many of the questions that are sent to ns concerning the possibility of 
self-fertilization in certain varieties. 

First let us understand the terms relative to pollination and fertil- 
ization. The pollination of a flower simply means the act of placing 
pollen on the pistil of that flower. Fertilization (in the sense here 
used) means the action of the pollen which causes the fruit to set. 
Thus it will be seen that a flower may be capable of self-pollination 
without being capable of self-fertilization ; that is, it is capable of self- 
pollination if it can transfer its pollen from the stamen to the pistil, 
but it is not capable of self-fertilization unless this pollen causes the 
fruit to set. It has been proven that in some varieties that are capa- 
ble of transferring their pollen from the anther to the pistil, the pollen 
is not capable of germinating there and causing the setting of fruit. 

In the peach orchard the following 24 varieties were worked upon : 
Hale's Early, Foster, Old Mixon Cling, Heath Cling, Wonderful, Fam- 
ily Favorite, Blood Free, Mountain Rose, Arkansas Mammoth Cling, 
Alexander, Rivers' Early, Old Mixom Free, Stump, Snow, Arkansas 
Traveler, Elberta, Crawford's Early, Smock, Crawford's Late, Silver 
Medal, Salway, St. John, Gold Dust, Piquett's Late. 

All these varieties were found to be capable of self-fertilization and 
the self-fertilized fruit developed as well as it did where the flowers 
were left exposed to be pollinated by natural methods, and as well as 
any of the cross pollinated fruits did. 

Only eight varieties of plums fruited this year, as follows: Lom- 
bard, Spaulding, Abundance, DeSota, Pond's Seedling, Shropshire 
Damson, Imperial Gage and Golden Beauty. All of these were found 
to be capable of perfect self fertilization. 

Of the cherries, Ostheim, Early Richmond, Montmorency, English 
Morello, Leib, Olivet and May Duke were found to develop perfect 
fruit when self-pollinated, but the few self-pollinated fruits that set 
were small and dropped shortly before the ripening period. 



102 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIEIY. 

Of the apples worked upon only two varieties, Fall Pippin and 
Peter Gideon's Best, were proven to be capable of self-fertilization. 
The following varieties did not set any fruit where their flowers were 
sacked, though they set abundantly where their flowers were left ex- 
posed : Babbitt, Gano, Gill's Beauty, McAfee's Nonesuch, Shackle- 
ford, Woodmansee, Sharp, Holraan, Ben Davis, Lowell. It remains to 
be proven by farther experiment whether the failure of these varieties 
to set fruit in sacks was due to impotency of their own pollen or to 
the fact that some mechanical difficulty prevented their pollen from 
reaching their pistils. 

The 110 varieties of grapes, embracing many different types, gave 
some very interesting results. The following fifty-six varieties form 
perfect bunches when self-fertilized : Wells, Niagara, Pocklington, 
Moore's Early, Potter, Hayes, Vergennes, Poughkeepsie Red, Eaton, 
Empire State, Centennial, Diamond, Highland, Delaware, Early Vic- 
tor, Standard, Stayman's No. 15, Stayman's No. 18, Stayman's No. 44, 
Stayman's No. 47, Woodruff Red, Green Mountain, Transparent, New 
Haven, Mason's Seedling, Israella, Wyland, Lutie, Othella, Norfolk, 
Northern Muscadine, Herbemont, Catawba, August Giant, Ives, Jeffer- 
son, Janesville, Lady Washington, Montifoire, Gambridge, Cynthiana, 
Perkins, Challenge, Mary Ann, Amber, Martha, Elvira, Rochester, Nor- 
ton's Virginia, Telegraph, Requa, Noah, Rentz, Dracut Amber, Agawan 
and Etta. 

Some varieties were shown to be barely capable of self-fertiliza- 
tion. While they set a few fruit in sacks the bunches were very im- 
perfect, most of the berries failing to set. When left exposed to nat- 
ural pollination they set much better. This list includes seventeen 
varieties, as follows : Worden, Jessica, Duchess, Stayman's No. 42, 
Lady, Bacchus, Wyoming Red, Diana, Conquerer, Hartford Prolific, 
lona, Missouri Reisling, Pearl, Champion, Cottage, Hermann and Faith. 

The following varieties were fund to be incapable of self-fertiliza- 
tion, but they set fruit when planted with other varieties : Ideal, Jew- 
ell, August Giant, Brighton, Moyer, North Carolina, Herbert, Ironclad, 
Aminia, Jewell, Amber Queen, Lindley, Neosho, Rothwell's Seedling, 
Black Hawk, Salem, Green's Golden, Black Eagle, Taylor, Bullitt, Mas- 
sasoit, Barry, Isabella, Eumelon, Wilder, Wilding and Marion. 

The failure of different varieties to self-fertilize may be due to dif- 
ferent causes. The pollen of some varieties is not self-potent — that is, 
though it reaches the pistil all right, it is incapable of promoting the 
setting of the fruit. In some varieties the pollen and the pistils are 
not ready for fertilization at the same time. The pollen may ripen too 
early, or, on the other hand, too late to impregnate or fertilize the 



SUMMER MEETING. 103 

^ower. Sometimes a mechanical difificalty stands in the way of 
the pollen reaching the pistil ; that is, the stamens may be too long 
or too short, or, as is the case in many of the grapes, they may be 
curved back and downward, out of the way of the pistils. Nearly all 
of the grapes which were not capable of self-fertilization were found 
to have reflexed (curved backward) stamens. It is interesting to note 
that in a single row of grapes there were four or five vines together 
at one end of the trellis that had retlexed stamens. The vines nearest 
the end of the trellis and farthest from any other variety set fruit very 
poorly, while the vine next to another strong pollen-bearing variety set 
much more fruit. 

In the case of the apples, it is probable that some of the varieties 
that did not set fruit in sacks may yet be found to be capable of self- 
fertilization if left open, where they may be freely visited by insects. 
The Ben Davis, for example, is known to have fruited well where iso- 
lated to a considerable distance from any other variety. It is proven 
beyond doubt, however, that the grapes which did not form perfect 
bunches of fruit in sacks will set much better if planted among those 
varieties that sf^t fruit readily in sacks. 

Steps will be taken next season to ascertain whether the failure of 
certain varieties to self-fertilize is due to the impotency of their pollen 
or to some difiiculty in the way of its reaching its pistils. 
J. C. Written, Professor of Horticulture, Ojllege of Agriculture, Co- 
lumbia, Mo. 



Thursday, June 10, 9 a. m. 

Meeting called to order by President Evans. 

Prayer by Rev. Pearse Pinch. 

The Secretary then read several letters. 



St. Louis, June 9, 1897. 
Mr. L. A. Goodman, Secretary, Sprlngfleld, Mo. : 

Dear Mk. Goodman— I am very sorry that the Nurserymen's Association conflicts In Its 

dates with your horticultural meeting, as I was extremely anxious to visit both. Sol 

must write what I would have preferred very much to say to your good members. 

At the Trans- Mississippi Exposition to be held next year in Omaha, It Is intended that 
there be a magnlflcent horticultural display, and I trust that Missouri will be ready to take 
her usual leading position. To the end that that be possible, arrangements need to be 
made early, and I trust that you may take some action looking toward such an exhibit at 
this meeting. Should It be possible to arrange a meeting of your executive committee 
soon, I should like to confer with you regarding the matter. I feel that the one way in 
which the West can particularly distinguish herself in this exposition is In fruits and other 
horticultural products, and by concerted action. We can surely astonish and please our 
visitors with our products. I am sure that Missouri can be depended upon, and wish to 
And out as to just in what manner. 

Please discuss the matter as you have time at the meeting, and write me at your early 
convenience. I remember with great pleasure my visit to your meeting several years ago, 
.and greatly regret my Inability to come this time. Yours sincerely, 

F. W. Taylor. 



104 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Westville, Ghariton County, Mo., May 31, '97. 
Hon. L. A. Goodman, Westport, Mo. : 

Dear Sir— In looking over the Horticultural report ot '95, 1 see a paper from "Sam 
Miller" about seedless persimmons. I have It from good authority that there Is one on 
the farm of David Gooch, Roanoke, Howard county, Mo, another on the farm of John 
Bass, Galena, Stone county. Mo. (Wishing to aid the horticulturist tiiought I would Inform 
you.) Please send a copy of the Horticultural report of '96 to Westville, Charlton county, 
Missouri. Respectfully yours, 

P. S.— I would like to be with you at Springfield, but cannot. Z. Cupp. 



Lanagan, BIcDonald County, Mo., May 10. 
Can you give any Information concerning evaporators? There are many advertised. 
Which do you think would be best for family use. I want to get one and 1 want a good one 
for as little money as possible. I think It will be good advertisement, as there is none 1D- 
reach of us. Mrs. Wm. Rodger.s. 

Answer — The Zimmerman. 



Elsdon, p. O., Chicago, May 28, 1897. 
Dear Sir— Will you please Inform me as to the prospect of the apple crop In Missouri 
this year; also in what county are the heaviest orchards. I am looking for a location for a 
cider mill and Jelly factory, and want a good orchard country, and of course would prefer 
one where there is no other mill, etc. How would Springfield, West Plains, Willow- Springs, 
Cabool, etc. , or Monet, Sellgman, Sulphur Springs, Ark , Siloam Springs, Ark. , do? I un- 
derstand there is a still at Bentonville. Ark,, that uses apples. It is preferable to get 
where there is no canning or drying plant or distillery. How about Arkansas? There 
ought to be some good points there. Can you tell me where there are cider mills, canning 
factories, etc. , located? It might save me going there later on, as I expect to run down, 
and look the ground over. 

Any information will be very acceptable. Yours, etc. , . 

John P. Anderson. 

Farmersburg, lA., June 2, 1897. 
L. A. Goodman, Secretary: 

Do you know anything about the Phoenix apple? Last Christmas I ate some at Elkader , 
this county: and brought two home, they In good, sound condition at this date. The 
merchant that sold them does not know where they came from. There were two barrels 
in the lot. I want, if I can, to get some buds or trees to grow tba apple, if I can get on 
the right track. Any information you can give me in relation to It will place me under 
obligations to you. Truly, 

John B. Corlett. 

Note— It is probably Lawver— a good keeper, but cannot get enough. 



Olden, Mo., June 2, 1897. 
Mr. L. a. GOODM.A.N, Westport, Mo. : 

Dear Sir— (Jan you furnish me a receipt for keeping fruits with acids? I want to put 
up some black and raspberries and early peaches for an exhibit in August. Kindly answer- 
by return mail, and oblige. Very truly yours, 

S. R Hammond. 



Columbia, Mo., March 15, 1897. 
The preparation that preserved the grapes so nicely and was almost as good for 
plums, peaches, apples and other fruits, is "Formalin," a preparation sent out by dealers 
in laboratory materials and reagents. On the grapes a two per cent solution was best for 
the varieties I tried it on. I shall try weak and stronger solutions from one to five per 
cent, and see which is best for the various fruits. It will freeze, so I shall try using it in 
salt water instead of pure water. I have tried fixing the fruits in the formalin and then 
adding a little alcohol to prevent freezing. That is pretty good, but the alcohol still 
bleaches a little. 

Richards & Co. , 108 Lake St. , Chicago, can sell you formalin or formalose. 

Very truly yours, 

J. C. Whitten, 



SUMMER MEETING. 105 



REMAEKS ON LETTERS. 

Mrs. Moyer — I will say tbat a great many have visited at our place 
when we were running this evaporator of ours, and they say it is a 
most complete little affair for home use; they like it better than any- 
thing they have seen. The entire cost of it for lumber, material and 
making does not exceed $5. 

Mr. Barnes — I believe in encouraging all these implements and 
fixtures that can be made at home just as much as possible. I do not 
see any reason why we cannot make evaporators, at home that will 
give just as good service. 1 want to speak just a few minutes of the 
evaporator used by Judge Welhouse, the apple-grower of Kansas. He 
said he tried one evaporator after another of the patented ones, and 
finally he paid a Mr. Plummer, a great evaporator man, to erect him an 
evaporator, and he says he used it for two years and then threw it 
away. He found out from some New Yorkers that home made affairs 
are better, and he is using one at the present time. 

Take any kind of a clean building you may have already built, if 
you have one; his is 18 feet square, and the posts are 14 feet high, 14 
or 16, as you like it, with an earth floor ; around the sides are openings, 
2 or 3 on a side, that can be closed at pleasure; on the cone of the 
roof is a ventilator, all the way along, so as to let out the steam from 
the fruit. Bight feet from the ground a slatted floor is put in ; these 
slats are of two-inch lumber, and put in in suc'j a way that when nailed 
down the upper side is about 3-16 of an inch apart, that is, leaves 
cracks about 3-16 of an inch wide, and the lower side a little wider, so 
that anything that falls on it will not lodge there, but pass through and 
not stop up the cracks ; that floor is about 8 feet from the ground. 
Now, under that floor you can put in any kind of a heating apparatus 
and run up a brick chimney, or any kind you want, to run up through 
the middle or center of the building A dryer 18 feet square will dry 
a hundred bushels a day of 24 hours. 

Around the sides of the building, even with this floor 8 feet high 
is a sort of a balcony arrangement, and you can step in and out there 
in handling the fruit. Paring and coring and preparing the fruit of 
course is another department. 

The apples, some of them, become what they call bone dry, and 
they will snap and break, become shrivelled in the heat; he has a pro- 
cess of putting them through water and steaming them and making 
them soft. He put up his dryer and sells his apples, under the instruc- 
tions of a New York house. Year before last he hauled 26,400 bush- 



106 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

els of appels from his dryer, and the New Yorker came out with noth- 
ing but a check-book in his pocket, and he bought those apples and 
took them back to New York in barrels and boxes. 

Prof. AVhitten — The question with regard to the gases for keep- 
ing fruit, so far as we are able to answer it, I can answer it approvingly. 
It occurred to Dr. Ayeis that he might be able to keep apples from de- 
caying by exposing them to the fumes of carbon dioxide. For this pur- 
pose he used some large glass jars ; some of the apples were kept on 
the show tables until they began to rotten, some were put in jars with 
gas turned in and gome put into ajar without the gas being turned in. 
Those that were in gas kept perfectly, except the carbonic acid gas 
would form in them, while in a very few days those that had not been 
exposed to the gas had decayed and putrified. After remaining in the 
gas for three or four months, the carbonic acid gas had formed on them, 
and they had the smell of vinegar, but there was no decay nor any put- 
rifying indications at all. He thinks by further experiments he will be 
able to put apples in air-tight rooms and keep them by exposing them 
to that gas. This gas can be gotten and compressed in tanks quite 
cheaply. He said if he were going to try to keep them by that method 
he would take the apples when entirely good, before any of the tis- 
sues had been broken at all, or affected ; these apples he did use were 
in different stages of decay, none of them were perefectly sound. 

Certain it is any way that they will not putrify in that gas. The 
formaline for keeping fruit is just coming into use, and costs about 
twenty-five cents a pound. 

We tried some experiments with it last year and we are also trying 
some this year ; it is particularly fine for keeping grapes, and grapes 
will keep in that and look almost as natural as the day they were put 
in, for an indefinite period of time. On the second day of last July, I 
put some grapes in a solution of about one and one-half per cent, that 
is, one and one-half pounds to 98* pounds of water, and put some 
grapes in |^that and today they have their natural appearance, in fact, 
in the liquid they look better than when dry in the air. I do not know 
how long they may last, but there is no reason why, corked and sealed 
up tight, why they shouldn't keep indefinitely. 

This year we are trying all fruits as they come in, in different 
strengths of the formula. For instance, a strawberry, if put in two per 
cent solution will cause the color to come out of the strawberry, and 
in a one per cent solution the color does not come out nearly so much, 
not enough to speak of, and it is a question whether a solution weak 
enough to not take out its color will keep them from decaying. Straw- 
berries turn a little and look a little bit brown and the color comes out 



SUMMER MEETING. 107 

into the liquid, out not enough to do much harm. Cherries do not fade 
out at all. We put some in a two per cent solution and none of their 
color came out at all. We have tried it on plums and peaches; we put 
some peaches last August in one and one-half per cent solution and 
they still have the red cheek which is characteristic of the Elberta, the 
variety which we used. In using this, seal it with a cork and then put 
paraflSne or vaseline around the cork to keep it from escaping. 

Q. Iq what shape is this secured? 

A. It is secured in a liquid form; it is a gas dissolved in water. 
It is imported and there are several tirms from which it can be had. 
From Henry Hile Chemical Co. of St. Louis, the formaline or formalose, 
it is a forty per cent solution of the Formalidi Hyde. 

Q. Has there ever been introduced in this section any device for 
picking fruit; if so, what? 

Mr. Murray — I never heard of any kind of a patented fruit picker 
and I hope I never shall. This is the best picker known (extending 
his hand ). The hands are the best fruit pickers there are. I want to 
see pickers employed in hand-picking. 

Mr. Goodman — I wouldn't give a cent for a man that couldn't pick 
a hundred bushels a day with his hands: the hand is the best picker. 

Mr. Miller — I am glad Mr. Goodman made the remark that he 
wouldn't give a cent for a man who couldn't pick a hundred bushels 
a day; years ago I picked 80 bushels one day, but I was ashamed 
to tell it, because I thought no one would believe me, but after I heard 
once of a man who had picked more than that I did not mind telling 
it, but I never told it until I heard of someone else. 

Q. An insect is killing my trees, what is if? 

A. Prof. Stedman — I think the gentleman must be mistaken ; 
there is no insect on earth that will get into a tree and kill it in a short 
time unless the tree is a very small one and a seedling. He starts off 
apparently to describe the twig borer, but when he says it kills the 
tree he gives the impression that one insect does it, and I do not know 
what he has reference to, because it takes a great many borers to kill 
a tree. A twig borer does not go into the heart of a tree; a twig 
borer will kill a twig but it takes a great many to kill a tree. 

DISCUSSION ON SPRAYING. 

Mr. Moseley — The experience we have had in spraying with arce- 
nate of lead is that there has been no damage done at all to the foli- 
age or fruit, and I am well satisfied that it killed nearly all the cater- 
pillars. We applied two sprayings of the arcenate of lead to the cat- 
erpillars ; I only sprayed a little block with the lead, and I had to go 



108 STATE HORTICDLTURAL SOCIETY. 

all over the orchard and pick out the caterpillars where we had not 
sprayed. We made an experiment last year with the Bordeaux mix- 
ture and we did not kill our trees or destroy a great deal of the foliage, 
but we injured the fruit. We were very careful and made that spray 
with formula No. 3 of the Bordeaux mixture and reduced it to a very 
fine condition, the finest condition we were able to produce, and we 
were very careful. The trees did not show any damage for some three 
weeks after the sprayiug was done. It was dry that length of time 
after the spraying was done. About three weeks after we had sprayed 
there came considerable of a fehower and then the sun came out after 
the shower and about 30 per cent of the leaves turned yellow and fell 
off, and we damaged the foliage to those trees very greatly while we 
did not destroy it, and we also damaged the crop of peaches, they did 
not attain the size the others did. I am very much elated over the 
discovery of the arcenate of lead spraying; our peaches we have made 
experiments on this season are entirely free from any depredations so 
far and are growing nicely without any indication of damage done. 

Mr, Stedraan — Do you know what solution you used for the cater- 
pillars ! 

A. Fifteen ounces to 100 gallons of water. 

Prof. Stedman — The arcenate of lead was nothing that originated 
with me at all ; it was discovered by a gypsy some years ago, and 
simply as a matter of experiment I tried it on the trees this year. In 
fact no one man did discover it. The beauty of it is that you can use 
it on the trees in almost any strength and not injure the tree. 

Fifteen ounces of arcenate of lead in 100 gallons of water is equiv- 
alent to one pound of Paris green to about 150 gallons of water. 

You will understand that it must be used in different strength on 
different trees. The arcenate of lead contains a little less arsenic than 
the Paris green and we have to use a little more in weight, but it has 
this advantage, aside from the fact that it will not injure the trees it 
requires less exertion to keep it suspended in water, while the other 
requires almost constant stirring and mixing. 

Arcenate of lead has been deaionstrated to kill any insects that 
eat, no matter what they are ; but in some instances it mast be stronger 
than in others. You use arcenate of lead the same as you would use 
Paris green, only you must always use more of it. Paris green costs 
in bulk about 19 6ente a pound ; the arcenate of lead is a little cheaper 
by weight, but inasmuch as you have to use more in weight it brings 
it up to about the same expense with this advantage that you do not 
need the lime with the lead. It is necessary to add a little glucose,, 
otherwise the arsenic falls off the tree ; but glucose is cheap, and by 



SUMMER MEETING. 109 

adding a little of that I think it will stay on the tree better than Paris 
green and lime. 

With reference to the curculio, we cannot reach it with any spray 
or with any poison; the cnrcnlio eats very little ; theoretically, we 
could kill it if we could reach every particle of fruit ; but that is im- 
possible ; we cannot stay upon one tree long enough to do that, and 
the result is if we reach 50 per cent of curculio we are doing remark- 
ably well. The formula for the arcenate of lead is: 

Arcenate of soda, four ounces ; acetate of lead, 11 ounces. 

That makes 15 ounces to be put in 100 gallons of water. 

Put that into a bucket of water, dissolve it thoroughly and let it 
stand over night, and during that time the solution will be formed. It 
is possible to buy arcenate of lead in the drag store, but it is expensive, 
and it is better to make it as I have indicated. It will not kill a canker 
worm half grown, neither will it kill the curculio in many instances. 

Mr. Moseley — I would like to know if there is any danger to human 
life or health in using this spray, that is, while using it ? 

A. It is just as injurious to breathe arcenate of lead as to breathe 
arcenate in any other form, but this is kept in water and you do not 
breathe it. 

Mr. Evans — What effect will that spraying on the peach trees have 
on the bees'? 

A. That is like the question that came up yesterday about bees 
puncturing grapes. 

It has never been satisfactorily demonstrated one way or the other. 
Some people claim that if we spray while the trees are in bloom that it 
will injure the bees. My impression is that there is no danger, and it 
is ray impression that there is no danger in spraying trees while in full 
bloom ; some think that by spraying while in bloom they ruin the bloom 
so that it ruins pollination. 

Mr. Miller — This spraying has become a great affair ; some recom- 
mend and some condemn it. I have used Paris green and London 
purple, and this year I have tried a new thing which is very simple; 
those chemicals are difficult to understand. A >ear ago I purchased 
some tobacco stems and some tobacco dust; I put about ten pounds 
of tobacco stems in a barrel and put in about a half a barrel of water ; 
I took a bucket fall of it that day — it was about the color of pretty 
fairly colored coffee — and I put this in twice the quantity of clear 
water, and I went out with that to my tree, not with a fine spray, but 
a fan spray, and I scattered that tree over and over and I think I hit 
every bloom, and I went over the whole row; and then a rain came 
and I was afraid it washed the most of it off, and I went out when 



110 STATE HORTICULTURA.L SOCIETY. 

there was a slight breeze when the tree was damp and scattered that 
tobacco dust all over the tree. There is only one insect on earth that 
I know of that will willingly take tobacco in its mouth, and that is re- 
fined man ; and if we can kill the curculio with tobacco lea, it will kill 
every insect and not hurt the tree at all. 

Prof. Stedman — I have tried tobacco and carbolic acid, but have 
not been able to kill curculios with either one. The best results are 
from jarring, but of course that cannot always be done. 

Now, about man being the only one to take tobacco in its mouthy^ 
the truth is there are about 20 insects that eat it. 

Mr. Murray — I have had considerable experience in spraying. I 
want to give a little experience of spraying a plum tree with London 
purple. I mixed one pound of London pnrple with fifty gallons of 
water and four pounds of lime. 1 thought I would test that on the 
trees to see what effect it would have on the foliage, and among others 
I sprayed one plum tree, and I sprayed it thoroughly ; I put on about 
two gallons of the solution, and it did not hurt the leaves at all, and I 
was not thinking about keeping the curculio off; I did it to test it as 
to burning, and I looked at thai plum tree carefully before coming 
down here, and I brought a twig of that plum tree with me, and another 
tree standing near that; I think about one-half of the plums on it are 
stung. 1 have been told that it is no use to spray for curculio, but I 
am going to watch them. 

Mr. Gilbert — I would like to ask the professor if it wouldn't be 
well to pound the soda and lead before trying to dissolve it? 

Mr. Stedman — Yes, sir ; that would do ; the arsenate of soda and 
acitate of lead comes in lumps, and you can dissolve 15 ounces of this 
in a bucket of water in a very few minutes. 

The curculio eats a little hole into the plum or cherry or whatever 
it may be, and deposits its egg in there ; in doing that it has to eat 
through the surface of the plum and then eats a little crescent or cir- 
cle around that egg, and in that eating is the only salvation in killing 
the curculio with the spray ; with the gouger the chances are greater, 
for the gouger eats much more. 

Mrs. Moyer — I would like to know what kind ot a looking animal 
or insect this gouger is ? This spring we have noticed something eat- 
ing the little short twigs off the peach tree, and they eai some off 
until the limb drops oft' and we found a big bug there. The children 
call it a stink bug, and I would like to know what it is, for that is what 
is causing all the trouble. I would also like to ask if this formula you 
are speaking of will prevent the rot on the early peach and some of 



SUMMER MEETING. Ill 

the plums ; we have a large Imperial plum that seems to rot each year. 
The Bordeaux mixture does not seem to help any. 

Mr. Stedman — This formula will do no good; you will have to 
reach it by the Bordeaux mixture or something of the kind. This gouger 
we were speaking of is very much like the curculio. 

Q. Cm you mix the arcenate oflead with this Bordeax mixture ? 

A. You can use the arcenate of lead just the same as if the 
Bordeaux mixture was pure water. 

Mr. Murray — I think we have just about as many of the plum 
gougers as we have of the curculio ; we have them both in my orchard 
and I know them both. Here is a twig of that plum tree I sprayed 
with the London purple, in the solution I spoke of a minute ago — one 
pound of London purple, four pounds of lime and 50 gallons of water. 
I am satisfied that the plum tree standing not over thirty feet from it 
has not one-half of its fruit perfect, and I am sure you cannot find an 
imperfect plum on this bunch of 26, I also tried it on other trees. 

Q. Those curculios that deposit their eggs early and those plums 
that fall to the ground, will they have time to go through the process 
of germination and come up and sting them again ? 

A. There is but one brood a year. 

Mr. Stedman — I would not advise any one to use London pur- 
ple for the reason that it is the refuse of different dye-stuffs, and its 
character varies ; if you should use it this year and be successful and 
try it again next year you might ruin your trees, because you might 
get it of a different strength or quality, and so I would not advise its 
use, or if at all, only after it had been tested very carefully. 

Q. Are grapes stung by the same insect ? 

A. No, sir, by an entirely different insect. 

Mr. Haseltine — I would like to know if there is any mode of spray- 
ing, or anything that has any effect on bitter rot ? 

Mr. Whitten — Bitter rot has been reduced somewhat by careful 
spraying ; a number of people who have tried spraying for it have re- 
ported a certain per cent of benefit from the spraying ; there is no 
way of absolutely preventing or curing bitter rot. You can reduce it 
somewhat. Bordeaux mixture has given the best results by spraying 
early in the season. 

And then right through the ripening season to spray with potas- 
sium sulphide we have found it quite effective. You will notice it 
grows less and less each year under this treatment. 



112 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



DISCUSSION ON INSECT PESTS. 

Q. I want to know something of a bug that gets in the potatoes. 
It is a worm that gets in the stem. They got into some very fine ones 
I had and destroyed about half of them. It is about one-half inch 
long and has a white stripe down its back. 

Mr. Stedman — That is by no means a new insect. My attention 
was called to it by someone writing me a letter. It has occurred in 
the east in great quantities in certain years and has done great damage, 
but it is easy to fight. We cannot reach it by spraying, as it does its 
work entirely inside. If you will cut off the stems early and not allow 
them to die down and wilt, and if you will cut them off and burn them 
you will get rid of them. They have done that in the east and have 
had no further trouble whatever. Yoa wait until the tops would die 
and the potato is ripe and pull them up and burn them and you kill 
every one that is in the field. Right the present time you can do noth- 
ing, but you can prevent them from coming another year? 

While I am up I will speak of this twig some gentleman handed 
me with a row of eggs upon it. That is a very common thing. They 
are sent to me at least three a week by parties wanting to know what 
they are. In the winter some people took them for the San Jose scale, 
and they have taken them for everything. Those are the egga of the 
katydid. You will find them upon the twigs during the winter. Do 
not be afraid of these; they will not do you any injury — not beause 
they are not capable of doing injury, but because there are parasites 
that hold them in check. 

Mr. Van Houten — We live in a potato growing country, and two 
or three years ago those bugs were so prevalent we began to hear that 
one of the chief industries was ruined, but the fact that we have been 
shipping potatoes this year at 6 cents a bushel shows that our industry 
along that line is not ruined by any means, and the trouble from them 
with us was very short. 

Mr. Murray — I want to make a statement so that Prof. St'^dman 
can give us some information in regard to the canker worm. Tiiis 
spring a year ago it appeared in several orchards, mostly in old orchards, 
one orchard of about thirty acres was entirely denuded of fruit within 
a few days ; a good many of us sprayed ; there were a few canker worms 
appeared in our own orchards. This year while we are not seriously 
troubled with canker worms, they reappeared in that same orchard 
and in a good many orchards, and I know it was on account of canker 
worms that a good many resorted to spraying; I advised that and kept 
posted as well as I could, and got information from Prof. Stedman, for 



SUMMER MEETING. 113 

which I am very thankful, about the strength of the solution. I got 
information from one man that he had sprayed with London purple — or 
it might have been Paris green — and that he had exferminated the 
canker worm ; what I want to know is whether or not it would be 
practicable to spray at any time? Whether or not they wouldn't be so 
numerous they would destroy the foliage before you could conquer 
them ? While the canker worm is increasing so rapidly what can we 
expect next year? 

Prof. Stedman — I presume it would be just as well if I gave a 
very short history of the canker worm so you will know why you are do- 
ing certain things. There are two species of canker worm, and they are 
much alike, the only difference practically, being in the life history of 
the two; one appears, as a rule, in the adult condition in the fall, and 
the other appears, as a rule, early in"the spring. Sometimes the one 
will appear at one time and the other at another. In either case the 
female canker worm has no wings ; it is a moth and should hav« wings, 
but apparently has not. The male has two pairs of wings and flys 
about. Now, that female, when she hatches out is somewhere besides 
on the tree, and in order to lay her eggs she has to climb that tree, and 
she will climb up that tree and deposit her eggs on the limbs. If she 
is hatched oat in the fall her eggs pass the winter, if in the spring they 
will develop late in the season. 

Now in order to get in the tree she has to climb up, having no 
wings she cannot fly, and if you will place some kind of a barrier around 
that she cannot pass that barrier and cannot get into the tree to de- 
posit her eggs and will deposit her eggs in the grass where they will 
perish. We have a spray for the coddling moth and other insects, 
and with it reach a number of those canker worms, but it has to 
be a much stronger solution of Paris green for the canker worm than 
for the other insects. Now when these larvi^e hatch they do not hatch 
until spring, they begin to feed rapidly upon the leaves of the tree 
and they keep those leaves eaten down and keep the tree from leaving 
out properly, and sometimes in a few days they reach maturity. I am 
under the impression it would be just as well if we went back to the 
old method and put bands around our trees where the orchards are in- 
fested, for the simple reason that we do not spray thoroughly, and 
therefore we are not going to reach such ravenous feeders as the can- 
ker worm, and it requires — except in the very early stages — a much 
stronger solution. You can put a band of tin around the tree just a 
short distance above the ground, or you can take a band of cotton 
wool, not the smooth cotton batting, but the cotton wool that is fluffy, 
H— 8 



114 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

and tie that aroand the tree and let it fall over where it is tied and it 
forms a loose, fluffy band and the moth cannot crawl over that on ac- 
count of the fibres, neither can she pass over the tin. 

Q. How would it be in a rain and after this cotton gets packed 
could they crawl over it then ! 

A. They probably could. 

Q. Mr. Murray — WhaL time would you put it on f 

A. The female of one species hatches out in the fall and deposits 
her eggs, and another in the spring. 

Q, Then you have to put it on in the fall and in the spring ? 

A. You could leave it on all the time, but cotton soon packs so 
it is better to put them on twice a year; tin is better because you can 
put it on so they cannot get around; this spring some of the canker 
worms hatched out as early as February. 

Q. Mr. Everington — What do those young feed on ? 

A. The female climbs up and lays her eggs, and they hatch out 
about the time the leaves come out. 

Q. What may be expected of an orchard that has been infested 
with canker worm this season and defoliated? Will it bring a crop of 
fruit next year? 

A. If you keep the canker worms away, yes, sir, decidedly ; some- 
times they disappear entirely, but that is due to parasites. 

Q. President Evans — Have you an idea what area of our State 
has been infested with canker worms this year? 

A. I have not mapped it out yet, but I have all the information 
on tile so I can say, I should think, about one-third of the fruit-grow- 
ing region. 

Q. What would be the average destruction in each of those 
counties? what proportion of orchards have been destroyed in the 
counties that are infested? 

A. About one-sixth. 

Q. Mr. Hopkins — Suppose they are not destroyed and reappear 
for two or three years in succession and destroy all the foliage, won't 
that kill the tree ? 

A. No, the tree recovers so far as the leaves are concerned, but 
you lose your crop. 

Mr. Hopkins — Last year the canker worm appeared in an orchard 
of Dr. Ullman's, and I desputed it being a canker worm, because of the 
fact that I had never seen it at that season of the year. 

Mr. Stedman — One specie is much more familiar than the other, 
and that was the specie you was not familiar with. 



SUMMER MEETING. 115 

Q. Mr. Mnrray — I would like to ask one more question, whether 
or not, from your information and best experience, can we reasonably 
hope that some parasite may check it by next year, or whether the 
chances are in favor of an increase of the canker worm next year? 

A. Yes, sir ; we have about five parasites we can rely upon, and 
in certain localities those parasites will probably exterminate it, so far 
as we are concerned. It may do it next year, or it may not — it depends 
upon conditions; but it is a very common occurence to have it do so. 

Mr. Stedman — Here I hold up a twig with something on it; it is 
called the praying mantis or devil's horse. That is one of your most 
beneficial insects; it prays upon other insects. If we had enough of 
those insects it would exterminate the canker worm; one of them will 
kill dozens in a day. Observe those eggs, and do not pull them off 
your trees and burn them ; they are your friends. There is one thing 
I wish I could impress upon all : we have insects that are beneficial as 
well as ones that are injurious ; that insect derives nourishment by 
sucking the juice from other insects. 

Q. I noticed in my orchard small patches of eggs about like a 
thumbnail; do you know what those eggs are? They are deposited 
something like the back of a tortoise shell. They are of yellow color 
covered over with a kind of slime; they come early in spring and late 
in winter, and in the summer you will find the shells. 

A. No, sir; that is not an injurious insect; we have no injurious 
insects that do that that lay their eggs in the winter, but I do not know 
from your description what they are. 

Q. Tell us how to fight the ten catarpillar. 

A. One way is to go around to the trees and take a stick and put 
in and turn it and put it on the ground and step on it; if you wait un- 
til later you can go over the orchard with a torch and burn them ; that 
is not injurious to the tree at all; or you can spray it if you spray 
while they are very young. 

Mr. Murray — I would like to inquire about the green aphis; there 
was so much excitement about it in the spring; I would like to know 
what success has been made m destroying it. 

A. Those aphis, it does not matter what color they are ; they are 
the same insect. Those insects at certain seasons, if the conditions 
are just right, they multiply enormously without laying eggs. They do 
that so rapidly that as soon as the trees unfold their leaves they are 
covered with the aphis ; those insects do not ordinarily do much dam- 
age ; the only damage they do is certain years upon cherry trees and 
plum trees ; they rarely damage apple trees. 



116 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

After being on tbe tree and sacking the juice for a few weeks 
they leave the trees and migrate to the grass and stay there until fall, 
when they migrate again to the trees and lay their eggs. 

When they appear, if you will spray with kerosene emulsion, I 
think one emulsion will be enough, sometimes they require two ; or if 
you have a large orchard and want to get through with one spraying 
take pyrethrum and put it in your kerosene emulsion, and one spraying^ 
of that nine times out of ten will prove sufficient. 

Mr. I want to say a word in regard to my experience with 

canker worms : I tried tying rope around and it did not seem to keep 
them off, they would seem to paste that over with a sort of paste they 
have and walk right over it; and I tried putting tin around, I had two 
two inches wide around the trees and they would do the same with it,, 
just paste it over, and walk right over it. And then I took cotton bat- 
ting, the ordinary cotton batting that they use on quilts, I would open 
that out and put the smooth side next to the tree and tie that around 
in the middle and let the upper piece fall over, and they would try to 
get over that but they couldn't do it. and they would get tangled in it 
and would work here for two or three hours, then in the evening when 
it would get cool they would crawl up under that and I have found as- 
high as fifteen that way on one tree; it is a regular trap for them. 

The first we found were in January and we put that on them. 
After the second year we did not have any trouble with them, that com- 
pletely exterminated them. 



EEPORT OF SECRETARY. 

The interest in fruit-growing is on the increase sure and safe in all 
parts of Missouri, more truly now than at any other time in her history. 
The prospect for this year's crop is a good one— in fact, was never 
better in the history of the State. The crop last year, although not 
satisfactory in many particulars, brought a good many dollars to our 
pockets. 

Seasons, times and surplus in the Bast destroyed the value of our 
apple crop, and on top of it all came the failure of our cold storage 
plants to properly keep the apples in their houses, all tended to lower 
and destroy values, and thousands of barrels of apples were not only 
lost, but cost their owners money besides, an anomaly in the history 
of orcharding in the West. 

But, while last year the wet weather destroyed or injured our 
strawberry crop so that it did not pay in many instances, yet this year 
the cool dry weather has given an opportunity to market perfectly one 



SUMMER MEETING. 117 

of the best and most profitable crops of berries that we have had in 
many years. 

ORCHARDING 

Is a great big question. It is a word that has not been known in its 
full meaning until of late years, and especially so in the West. Not 
many years since if you had told a person that yon were going into the 
work of "Orcharding" he would hardl.^ have known what you meant. 
Today we have hundreds of men who are " Orcharding " in the truest 
and fullest sense of the word. Years ago a person would have been 
thought wild who would plant an orchard of 100 acres. Today we 
find them by the hundreds over our Western country and many another 
who is planting 300 acres, 400 acres, or perhaps even 1,000 acres. Now 
we are no more astonished when we hear of some one planting two or 
three or more hundred acres of apple or peach orchards. The man 
now seems to go into it as a sort of business just as any other busi- 
ness man goes into his business. 

This matter of " Orcharding " has also become a favorite and sure 
plan for the investment of a few hundred or thousands of dollars for 
safe keeping and sure returns. 

No person can make a mistake in purchasing the cheap lands in 
Missouri all along our creeks, streams or rivers, where they are now 
mostly covered with a forest growth. Take these lands and chop, 
clear, burn off the brush or timber and plant to orchard trees. No 
person need fear that the cheap lands of Missouri will ever be any less 
in price than at this very time. Careful selection of some of these 
lands for future orchards and prepared in the proper manner for or- 
chard growing will bring their owners two, three, five times the money 
spent on them if it be done in a legitimate manner and planted with 
the proper varieties. These cheap lands will be worth in a few years 
threefold the purchase price, and if planted in orchards will pay a won- 
derfully big per cent on the investment. 

"Orcharding" means in its broadest sense the growing of apple 
orchards, pear orchards, peach, plum or cherry orchards in such quan- 
tities as to make it a business for the person who undertakes it. The 
orchardist should be a grower of all these fruits, so that he can supply 
his customers with what they want and when they want it. He will 
have a suflBcient quantity of apples so that he can supply firm with a 
lot of apples every week during the winter, and, if possible, far into 
spring. 

APPLE ORCHARDING 

Means then the growing of quantities of apples for the wholesale buyer, 
or the dealer, or the grocer, or the family, or all combined. He wants 



118 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

then, first, a proper location, suitable soil, the right climate in order 
to attempt the growing of apples in a commercial way. You will find 
this in nearly all parts of Missouri. Right about here you find the 
right elevation above the sea, 1,200 to 1,500 feet, and the correct loca- 
tion, where there are plenty of valleys to draw off the cold air and pro- 
tect the fruit from destruction by late frost in spring or severe cold of 
winter. 

Here you will find the suitable soil that gives the best of color,, 
the choicest in quality, the finest of texture and the greatest in quality 
of any of our apples, of any place in all this broad land of ours. Mis- 
souri offers untold advantages to the one who will go up and possess 
them. Here you will find the most desirable climate for the produc- 
tion of these fruits in abundance, perfection and beauty. 

The elevation, the location, the soil, the climate, then, are what we 
want, and if this soil of Missouri, that is so rich in all tree growth ma- 
terial, in the iron thai colors the fruit, in the potash that makes the 
wood, then we need not fear to so locate, so plant, so cultivate and so 
gather of these beautiful and pure and good fruits, that it will gladden 
the heart and give health, and dollars will line the pockets of the ap> 
pie-grower. 

I shall surely congratulate the Society on its enthusiastic will to 
do. It is because of this powerful will to do that has given us such 
success in all our society work, in all the orchard development, in all 
our individual work. It is a long step, a broad river, hard trials, up- 
hill work between the can and will. There is no responsibility rests 
upon us if we can not, but there is a ead one to us if we will not, 
and how many times we excuse ourselves and say can not when we 
simply mean will not. 

As members of this Society we find few who will not, when any 
duty is placed upon them, and to that is ascribed the success of our 
Society and its work. You are noted among men for the success and 
the engergy and the earnestness you have put into this society work 
in years past. People have looked and wondered and admired this 
work and this influence of yours for these many years, and the answer 
has been and will be that it is because you will. 

This will of these, our members, has given us the power to over- 
come all obstacles ; this is what has made your life a success, and is 
what will make any one's life a success, and will make any society a 
success. Success looks easy to us when we see the person at the end 
of a successful life or business, and we often think if we only had sucb 
an opportunity, or such advantages, or such circumstances as that per- 
son had, we also could be successful. The story seems so easy and 



SUMMER MEETING. 119 

plain after the race is raa and the hiatory v«^ritten, but the fature seems 
so uncertain that we can see nothing but failure, or trouble, or hard 
work, or harder times in front of us. 

So with this Society. It has been a long pull, but there has been 
a will that we succeed in spite of all the obstacles, and so it has. The 
prevailing rule of success has always been and always will be : "Do 
well all the duties of today" and you will be ready for the larger and 
greater duties of tomorrow. This rule gives such a discipline to our 
minds and body that the will to do becomes energy and push, and per- 
severance, and enthusiasm, and finally, success. 

What we will do individually may be to follow somewhat the plan 
that we have always followed in all our business, a steady, earnest, 
continual at it. Today we find one thing succeeds best, tomorrow 
another, this year one variety or one class of fruits may be our suc- 
cess, another year we may find that the same fruit or vegetable would 
prove a failure ; today proves one fact, tomorrow disproves it. Seven 
years ago I advised a friend to plant out 40 acres of apples and 10 
acres of peaches, last year if his trees had all been peach, he said he 
should have made enough to pay for the entire place. One year I had 
such a bountiful crop of pears and secured such good prices that I 
wished all my trees were pear trees. But a few years later the pear 
trees all blighted, and perhaps next year my friend may have no 
peaches. 

What we must do is to plod along with the best knowledge we can 
obtain each year, and profit by it, do the best we can, every duty and 
every work thoroughly and the will to do will make the success a sure 
one. 

In spite of the wonderful success of special crops at certain times 
it is not wise to go too largely into any one thing exclusively, because 
if a failure comes it will be our all that fails. Better have the will to 
do a little of all things that can be done well and without conflict. All 
kinds of small fruits and large fruits that succeed well and will give 
employment the whole year round seems to be the safe and sure one 
to success. If you have the will to do you need not fail. 

Today we complain that no money is to be made in many lines of 
business, and we wonder if ever we can realize the good old times. 
We fail to read the times if we expect such a thing. Things are 
changed, people are changed, times have changed, business has changed, 
all our surroundings have changed. Hundreds are doing today what 
one was doing years ago. Thousands were making money then to 
where we find tens doing it today. Tens of thousands are seeking 
employment today where only hundreds were, in the olden times. 



120 STATE HOETICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Money was made easily then and spent freely, we became extravagant 
in the use of money and time, and can no more expect such things or 
times. 

I wonder, when this subject comes to me, "what we will do," if 
we are as slow to learn of this change of times, and seasons, and cus- 
toms, and business, as were the people here at the close of the war. 
I wonder if we begin to understand that we must adapt ourselves to 
this new order of things, and do twice the amount of work for one- 
half the pay. If not, then we fail to realize the questions, and times, 
and demands that are staring us in the face. 

When I located at Westport, over twenty-five years ago, there 
came to my grounds every day an old gentleman (riding upon his little 
pony), of the times, and customs, and manners, and business of before 
the war. He looked on in disgust to my planting berries, and vines, 
and trees, and evergreens, and his continual advice to me was that 
"you will never make a cent out of all this work and nonsense. I 
have been here forty years cutting down just such things as you are 
planting. Go and raise hogs and mules, and cattle and corn." He 
never came to realize, to the day of his death, that it was a new era of 
things, that the old times had passed way, never more to return. He 
died mourning the good old times, and was continually repeating 
that town, and country, and people were going to destruction as fast 
as possible. 

So, I think, when we hear the complaints and fault-finding, and 
recurrence to old times, and old prices, and old profits, and old suc- 
cesses, if we are not as blind to the changes of our times as was that 
man and those people, to the changes of the times at the close of the 
war in many parts of our State. 

What we will do is to take these questions, and times, and seasons, 
and changes, and go at them with the same vim that we did ten, 
fifteen, twenty or twenty-five years ago. What will we do ? Ask the 
young man of twenty or twenty-five years. He never grieves over 
old times, but with all his energy, and earnestness, and enthusiasm, he 
works with consciousness of nothing but success. 

What we will do as a society will depend upon what we do indi- 
vidually. We surely cannot make the Society a success if we are not 
individually a success, for the whole cannot be greater than all its 
parts. 

I feel sure in the prophecy when I say that this Society will con- 
tinue its work in the future as in the past, in awakening this western 
country to a realization of its advantages for horticultural pursuits. I 
look to see this Society send out a good entomologist, or botanist, or 



SUMMER MEETING. 121 

geologist, or chemist, or horticulturist, to occupy a prominent position 
in the land, and to help make the intiuence of our Society felt, and 
appreciated, and honored. 

I look to see this Society take possession of the different horti- 
cultural organizations of the State. We will have our Society repre- 
sented in the colleges of Missouri, Kansas and Arkansas. We will be 
the foremost in the future as in the past — first ia horticulture, first in 
the sciences, and first in the application of all these to the use of our 
countrymen. 

SCHOOL OF HORTICULTURE. 

One of the most important steps for the advancement of the 
knowledge of horticuliure was the establishment of this " School of 
Horticulture." It was my pleasurable duty to meet this class of eight 
and give them some instruction in the growing of orchard and small 
fruits. I went to Columbia and the Agricultural college with some 
misgivings, although I seldom undertake anything with that feeling ; 
as to the result, it was an agreeable surprise to me when I found wait- 
ing there these earnest young people ready and eager to take all the 
information they could get and make it part of their own. 

I found that Mr. Murray had given them a good start and had 
them well enthused on this subject of nursery growing, grafting, prop- 
agating, etc., so that my work taken up here carried them on to matters 
of greater interest and greater importance, if one fact can be consid- 
ered greater than another. The work alone by these young people 
lead me to believe that much good will come to them and the school 
by this course. I look to see 40 there this next winter, each trying to 
get something out of this school that will make him or her a practical 
fruit-grower or a successful gardner. 

The work consisted of discussions and illustrations, and facts 
given as concisely as I could give them, so that they could comprehend 
and grasp it all. I often thought that there was a great deal of detail 
work that need not be outlined or explained, but invariably it came to 
the point where it became necessary to go still into minute detail and 
explain every step in the plan. To this instruction was added three 
times each week some out-door practical application of the instruc- 
tion in the pruning the grape, peach, pear, apple or berry bushes, 
or the planting of the same, or the propagation of plants might be the 
topic of discussion and the illustration was part of the practical work. 

At the best I found myself enjoying every moment of time with 
these young people and thought myself back to the school life once 
more. I believe I am safe in predicting a large and successful school 
for the future. 



122 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

The following are the list of students who followed the course 
entirely through, or nearly so : Miss Emma J. Park, Springfield ; Paul 
Simmons, Macon; Cad Todd, Sedalia; W, B. Hoag, Mt. Grove; P. K^ 
Sylvester, Osborn ; A. W. Davis, Shelbina; L, Winchester, Sikeston ; 
A^rthur Erwin, Fulton; Mrs. A. C. Steibel, St. Louis. Besides these 
regular students we had often the class in Agriculture for a day's 
lecture or for a day's practical illustration. 

OUR LIBRARY 

Has been increased by the purchase of a number of new books, forty 
ill number, at a cost of $65. This library now contains all the most 
important books that are of interest to the fruit-grower and will be 
added to as the new works come to hand. I have used this library as 
a circulating library whenever called upon to do so. Many of our 
members have called upon me for help and I have sent them the work 
that would give them the best information, with the request to mail it 
back to me as soon as it was possible for them to do so. 

This library and the file of State horticultural reports of other 
states give a vast amount of proper instruction that is invaluable to 
anyone who grows fruit. 

OUR APPROPRIATION, 

As many of you know, was increased by $500 per year through the 
liberality of the General Assembly and the active work of President 
Evans, Vice-President Murray and Treasurer Nelson, and above all, 
through the influence of our local societies, and the wonderful interest 
awakened by the development of fruit growing all over our State by 
the members of our State Society. 

I am glad that the importance of horticulture to our State has re- 
ceived such recognition as it justly deserves and such encouragement 
as it rightly needs for its fullest development. The printing commis- 
sioners have given us 500 more copies of the report for the year and 
they can be used to good advantage. We want gradually but surely 
to grow and develop and improve so that this growth may be a sound 
and substantial one and not one that can be overturned easily. Step 
by step and little by little have we desired to increase the usefulness 
and power of this Society and its influence all over our State. 

OUR SUB-STATIONS. 

Perhaps some of you noticed the item in the St. Louis Republic 
that IllinoiLS had five sub-stations under the control of the State So- 
ciety, and wondered why this State Society did not do likewise. In 



SUMMER MEETING. 123 

answer I want to eay that we have a nnmber of men who are every 
year carrying ou as valuable a series of experiments in the different 
departments of fruit, vegetable and tiower experimenting as are those 
mentioned, and their results are published in our State report. These 
experiments and experiences are all the more valuable because they 
are made for a special purpose, to prove the value of special varieties 
on certain soils and locations. Hundreds of men, scattered over the 
State, are doing today what these sub-stations should be doing, and 
these results are so detiuite and sure that you have only to ask them 
the best varieties and soils and locations for making money and they 
will tell you, and best of all, these results are in shape in our report, 
so all may profit by them. 

But this experimenting is an expensive matter to each of us, and 
although we reach conclusions that are safe and sure enough for us to 
follow, yet all this should be done by the Experiment Station as a cen- 
ter and four or five sub-stations as assistants. Such a complete and 
concise statement of facts could be collected and sent out that it would 
be very nearly a correct guide to follow. 

THE EXPERIMENT STATION 

Is now doing the best work ever done for the horticulturist, and out 
lining a lot of work for the future that will be very valuable to every 
fruit-grower. The sympathy and assistance of Prof. Waters and the 
efiBcient work of Prof. Whitten and Prof. Stedman will surely place our 
Station second to none in the land, instead of at the end, where we 
have been so long. Let us give every encouragement to them in their 
work and every assistance in carrying out their instructions. 

HORTICULTURAL INSTITUTES. 

It has been long the desire of this Society not only to co-operate 
with the State Board of Agriculture in the holding of institutes, but 
to hold a number of them itself. There are many points in our State 
where the principal interest is that of fruit-growing, and we have calls 
every year to come and hold an institute for two days at certain points. 
The increased appropriation now enables us to do so, and in fact I may 
add was made so that this could be done, and it was mutually under- 
stood that it would be done. A number of places have already made 
application for such an institute, and others will follow. As these 
come up and we are called upon to do a part in carrying our work on, 
let us do it with the same will and enthusiasm that we do all our busi- 
ness matters. 



124 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

THE shippers' ASSOCIATION. 

This disposition of our fruits has been and ever will be a great 
question to solve, and today it is the great bugaboo. There is no more 
serious or important question can come before ihis Society than that 
of "Transportation" and " Marketing." One has truly said, " It is no 
more a question, can we raise fruits, but how best to market them." 
What with enormous freight and express rates and dishonest commis- 
sion men, the grower is between the devil and the deep sea. This 
union of communities and shipping in car lots is one answer. This 
shippers' union and their sending where the fruits are moat wanted is 
another solution; this sending a man to the most important markets is 
another solution; but even then we are more or less at the mercy of 
the commission man, are we not? How can we best overcome that? 
Can men be found who are honest? Can it be possible to have an in- 
spector at all ouF important points and commission men in all our 
cities, all of whom shall be under bond? If so, will it not be another 
way out of the difficulty? A full and free discussion of these matters 
should surely demand a part of our attention and discussion. Can we 
expect to succeed at once? By no means. It may take years to get 
the proper machinery and plan to work this to perfection. To any of 
you who think it cannot be done I would recommend a thorough study 
of Prof. Langley and his ten years' work on the flying machine. 

THE COLD STORAGE 

Was so nearly a failure last year that we have to question if they know 
it all yet. It occurs to me that they even have much to bear, and the 
only trouble is that they are learning at our expense. Thousands of 
pounds of good winter apples were put into cold storage last fall that 
were a complete loss, and the fault was not always the apple-packer's 
either. Good, large, cool cellars must help us solve the question, and 
it well behooves us to do much of this on our own plan. 

These are only a few of the important matters that come to me as 
I study this great question. It is for you and me to take hold of each 
as it confronts us and help solve them. You need not fear that you 
will have nothing for your head to do when you begin to realize how 
much there is yet to study and learn and prove. To this end let us 
labor, and work, and wait, and watch, and in the end we will see suc- 
cess within our reach. L. A. Goodman. 



SUMMER MEETING. 



125 



REPORT OF TREASURER, A. NELSON. 



1897. 

Jan. 2". 

27. 
27 



Jan. 24. 

2i. 



Feb. 2S. 

28. 



March 2.^. 

28. 



31. 
31. 



31. 
31. 



81. 
31. 
31. 
31. 



April 28. 

28. 
28. 



May 18.. 



27. 
27. 
27. 
27. 
27. 



June 



27. 



Jan 

27. 
27. 
27. 
March 31. 
31. 



EXTENSES. 



Express. $1.10, .80c, 50c, 40c . . 
Salary of Secrerary, January. 
Trlpto Joplln, $8.10, hotel, $:i. 



AVarrant No. 354. 



Hudson & Klmberly, letter-heads 

A. Nelson, trip to Kansas City, telegram. 



Warrant No. 355 



Hudson & Klmberly, $8.95, express, $6.50 

Salary of Secretary, February, $Gt!.6(j, dray, $1. 



Warrant No. 356. 



Express, $2.85, P. O. bill, $10. 
Salary of Secretary, March. . 



Warrant No. 357 



Express, $1, Scotford Ptg. Co., $4.45 ; 

K. C. paper hou.se, wtapplug paper 

Hudson & Klmberly, $10.50, typewriter three months, $60 .. 

Warrant No. 3.58 '. 



P. O. bill, $15, trip to Jefferson City, $8.55 
Hotel, $4, library books, $65 



Warrant No. 359. 



A. Nelson, expenses to Jefferson City, January.. 

" February 

J.C.Evans, " 
N. F. Murray, " 



Warrant No. 360. 



Five hundred P. O. cards and printing 

Spray pump (extinguisher) 

Salary of Secretary for April 



Warrant No. 361 

J. M Stedman, expenses 
Warrant No. 362 



P. O. bill, $10, receipt books, $2.25 

Program summer meeting 

May 6, expenses to St. Louis 

Hotel 11 days, $11, return, $9 

Salary of Secretary for May 



Warrant No. 368. 



Hudson & Klmberly, S half tones and 4,000 Impressions each 
for report 



Warrant No. .864. 



P O bill and trip to Springfield, A. Nelson, 
Cash to Samuel Miller 



Warrant No. 365. 



Balance on hand. 



KECEIPTS. 



Balance as per last settlement 

Received from State Auditor 

Membership, L. \. Goodman 

" A.Nelson 

Received from State Auditor 

deficiency bin. 



$2 .80 
66 66 
10 10 



28 45 
21 90 



10 45 
67 66 



12 85 
66 66 



5 45 

9 85 

70 50 



23 55 
69 00 



22 65 
28 75 
12 00 
22 50 



6 50 
10 00 
66 66 



28 10 



12 25 
12 50 
5 50 
20 00 
66 66 



81 50 



6 60 
15 00 



357 69 

797 97 

10 00 

18 00 

546 28 

37 00 



$79 06 



50 35 



78 11 



79 51 



85 80 



92 55 



80 90 



83 16 



28 10 



116 91 



81 50 



21 60 

877 55 
889 89 

1.766 94 



1,766 94- 



126 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Springfield, Mo., June 9, 1897. 

We, the Committee on Finance, have examined the report ot the Treasurer and And 

same correct as stated by him, and vouchers for all. Amount money on hand In bank of 

Lebanon, as stated by the cashier, $889.39. 

S. VV. Gilbert, 

N. F. Murray, 

John T Snodgbass, 

Committee. 

Mr. Zink, President of the Greene County Horticultural Society, 
then extended to the State Society an invitation to adjourn to the 
banquet prepared by the ladies of Springfield. 

The President announced that the banquet prepared by the Greene 
County Fruit Growers' A.8soclation for the entertainuient of the visi- 
tors would be ready in the old postofBce arcade about 12:30, and all 
members of the Convention were cordially invited to take dinner with 
the hosts of the meeting. The dinner was served at the appointed 
hour, and a more attractive dining-hall never greeted a company of 
visitors than the Spriugtield and Greene county ladies had prepared 
for their guests. The tables were charmingly decorated with flowers, 
and the aesthetic attractions of the banquet would alone have been a 
delight, but these beauties of the season only served to flavor the 
elaborate menu which the excellent housekeepers so generously served. 
The Greene County Association in this feature of hospitality certainly 
gave every guest a new appreciation of the rich resources of the 
Ozarks and the royal spirit of the Southwest Missouri heai't. 

After the dinner, Dr. Joseph Hensley, as toastmaster, called the 
meeting to order, and, making a few suitable remarks, introduced G. 
H. Van Hoaten, Secretary of the Iowa State Horticultural Society, 
who spoke very eloquently on " Horticulture in the East." 

Vice-President N. F. Murray responded to the toast, " Horticul- 
ture in the West." 

W. H. Barnes, Secretary of the Kansas Horticultural Society, 
spoke on "Unity in Horticulture," President J. C. Evans on '' Tbe 
Ozark Region," H. Adkins, of Sarcoxie, on "Three Hundred Car-loads 
of Strawberries," and Rev. John Brereton on "Women in Horticul- 
ture." 

The miscellaneous program of the closing session was then taken 
up by the regular meeting. 



SUMMER MEETING. 127 



Thursday, 3 p. m. 

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS. 

Mr. Hartzell — The beat fertilizer for the orchard is ashes. Asbf 8 
are good and are easy to procure. If a man can't get ashes he can 
get the concentrated lye. 

Mr. Evans — I want to tell of one thing that every farmer can get, 
and that is cow peas. Of all the fertilizers we have experimented with 
the cow peas are the best we can get, so far as their value for a fertil- 
izer is concerned. 

Q. When shall we plant ? 

A. Plant in the fore part of May and the latter pkrt of June ; 
then plow down and grow again ; that is good treatment for an apple 
orchard. If your land is in moderate good condition for an apple 
orchard, sow your land in cow pease in June, and that will be all that 
will be necessary, and in the fall turn your hogs in and they will get 
fat. Plant your cow peas and turn your hogs in and they will tram- 
ple it down, and in June plow it up and turn your hogs in again and 
your orchard will increase in fertility each year. 

GRAFTING PEAR ON APPLE ROOTS. 

Mr. Goodman — I would say that I had tried grafting pears on 
apple roots in a good many instances, and have budded the apple trees 
with pears also, and got a large growth of pear trees, and a good many 
I planted and a good many I sold. They will hold for a good many 
years if the union is planted below the ground, but if it is not they 
will break off. You will get probably 10 or 20 per cent out of the graft- 
ing of pear on apple roots. 

Q. I would like to ask a question on that point. Will the woolly 
aphis attack the pear grafted on the apple root ^ 

A. The woolly aphis will attack the apple root no matter what 
the top is. 

Mr. Wiley — I will give my experience along that line. It acted 
similarly to the Chinese stock. The trouble with the Chinese stock is 
that the sap rises in that stock much sooner. I would prefer the apple 
seedling. I found that after they had been growing for two or three 
years they established their own roots, and then they become a good 
pear. 

Mrs. Moore — How would you set the pear grafted on the apple ? 

A. Just. as deep as on any other ; make the graft quite low down ; 
there is a very small per cent of the grafted fruit that lives ; it depends 
a great deal on the variety. 



128 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Mr. Zink — I would like to ask if Mr. Wiley has ever used the 
Leconte root as a stock grafting? 

Mr. Wiley — I have and cannot say that I see any difference. 

Mr. Zink — Grafted on the Leconte root it will not grow well and be 
healthy. 

Mr. Goodman— I want to say that at Olden about 2,500 Leconte 
roots were grafted upon, and out of the twenty-five hundred grafted 
upon nearly every one died; they never paid for the trouble. 

Q. What is the objection to a Japanese plum grafted upon peach 
stock ? 

Mr. Miller — I would say nothing if you plant it over the joint. 

Q. What is the effect of spraying the apple in Jane and later? 

Mr. Whitten — We always spray the apple a little later than June 
for the scab and ordinary fungus diseases; we spray up until July and 
sometimes up until the gathering season almost. If apples are sprayed 
up until nearly the gathering season with Bordeaux mixture and there 
is no rain, it is apt to discolor tJbe fruit. We never had any apples 
discolored at gathering time if they were not sprayed later than within 
six weeks of the gathering season. 

Q. How late should spraying be continued if fruit is healthy ? 

A. For scab, skin blotch and leaf rust, which occurs in the dis- 
tricts where cider apples are prevalent, that spraying up to the first or 
middle of July will be sufiBcient to keep those off, but in bitter rot you 
want to spray right on until nearly time to gather the fruit. 

It is somewhat expensive, but you can make the sprajing less and 
less each year ; where we have gone right on spraying for three or four 
years we find now that we do not have to spray more than two or three 
times a year in order to keep scab and skin blotch all off. 

Q. What kind of a cellar is the best to keep apples for family 
use? 

Mr. Miller — A deep clean one, with a contrivance to keep open 
and ventilate in cool weather. 

Mr. Whitten — I think one with moisture is good so they will not 
shrivel. 

Q. What is the beat storage for apples ? 

Mr. Goodman — I wish to say in connection with this that our cold 
storage plants are partly a failure. There were hundreds of thousands 
of barrels of apples put in cold storage in large cold-storage places in 
Kansas City, and thousands of those barrels were lost absolutely. We 
were looking for a few barrels to send away to a foreign country, and 
we couldn't find them that were fit to send, and those very men who 



SUMMER MEETING. 129 

have always asked that the frait men would take advantage of their 
offers to take care of the fruit do not know what to do. 

Mr. Hartzell — I want to say that in the State of Missouri a place I 
have seen, constructed by a gentleman of our organization, that is the 
finest place I have seen for the storing away of apples. 

Brother Gilbert.has a hole in the ground worth many thousand 
dollars. There is a hole in the ground that would make a grand place ; 
that is it; we can have a hole in the ground to keep the apples. We 
want a better place than the cold storage, and every man or woman 
who "is interested in this can have a place right where they live. We 
have got the orchard, the fruit and the ground to make the hole in. 
Will we make it ? that is the question. 

Mr. Hazeltine — I would like to ask whether apples will keep bet- 
ter under ground in a cellar or above ground ? 

A. Mr. Goodman — I can simply tell you that below ground is the 
beet so far as my experience has gone. 

Mr. Van Houten — When we were keeping fruit for the Columbian 
Exposition the fruit kept very well, but we ought to remember that at 
that time cold storage was in an experimental stage and the fruit was 
taken in comparatively small quantities, but the great trouble is that 
the American people try and overdo everything ; as soon as they 
thought they had a good thing they rushed the fruit in rapidly, and the 
change of temperature of the fruit from time to time caused the in- 
jury. The result is that underground cold storage is the best way out 
of the diflficulty. 

Mr. Evans — There is one important thing not been mentioned and 
that is to have the walls to your cellar as much natural earth as pos- 
sible ; that will destroy all disease germs quicker than anything. 

Q. How would you remedy that in a cellar that has stone walls? 

A. You could have a wooden wall and have spaces in it that will 
hold the bank back and yet allow the disease germs to pass into the 
earth. Where the cellar is all right take a little hand spraying machine 
and whitewash it and that will kill all the disease germs ; put a little 
carbolic acid in with it. 

Mr. The cold storage where I kept my apple trees has been 

used as a cold storage cellar, but I think we do not get enough venti- 
lation. 

Mr. Goodman — You can never make a cold storage out of your 
apple cellar, because it has doors open out right on the ground and 
you cannot keep apples there ; if you would dig it out and put double 
doors inside and outside yon might make a cold storage out of it. 
H— 9 



130 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Mr. Haseltine — The best plan is to have your cellar with a kind of 
ante-room where the apples can set and cool off before being put into 
the cellar, and that also keeps the air from the outside from rushing 
right into the cellar, and you are able to keep the cellar at a more even 
temperature. 

Q. What are the three best varieties of commercial apples ? 

A. Mr. Haseltine — There are two that everybody knows and they 
are the Ben Davis and the Ingram ; I wouldn't attempt to name the 
third one, there are so many different opinions. 

Mr. Haseltine — I would say the Ben Davis, New York Pippin -and 
Kentucky Red. 

Mr. Barnes — I would say that at the annual meeting of the State 
Horticultural Society of Kansas last December that that question was 
decided by ballot, and the Ben Davis got the most ballots, and I can- 
not remember exactly how they run after that, but it was Ben Davis, 
Winesap, Missouri Pippin, Jonathan, Ralls Geniting, York, Imperial. 

Mr. Wild — For the best three commercial apples I should say Ben 
Davis, Huntsman and Ingram. 

Mr. Moseley — Ben Davis, York Imperial and Jonathan. 

Mr. Bell — Ben Davis, Jonathan and a little more Ben Davis. 

Mr. Hensley — It would be well for these gentlemen to state what 
part of the State they are from ; I do not think the Joiiathan apple 
would do very well in this part of the State. 

Mr. Barnes — I would suggest the following proportion as being a 
good one for an orchard: 260 Ben Davis, 160 acres of Geniting, 40 
acres of Mammoth Black Twig and 40 acres of miscellaneous. 

Mr. Hensley — I had a letter the other day asking me how the In- 
gram was liked in this State, and I said that it was the best apple we 
had for commercial purposes at present; the Ingram is selling for 
more money today than any other apple ; it is good and firm and bears 
early and bears abundantly. 

Mr. Gilbert — I believe the Ben Davis, Ingram and York Imperial 
are the best for Southern Missouri. 

1 would suggest one other; they have left out one of the 

best apples we have; that is the Grimes Golden; I should say the 
Grimes Golden, Ben Davis and Ingram. 

Q. Do you think it would pay to rent 30 or 40 colonies of bees 
to use to fertilize the apple bloom in an orchard of 80 acres at one 
dollar per hive ? 

A. Mr. Secretary — I think that would depend upon whether 
there were different varieties of apples. If a man had a large block 



SUMMER MEETING. 131 

of one kind of apples, I think it would pay; but if he has his orchard 
divided with different kinds of apples, I do not think it would pay. 

Mr. Van Houton — I do not like to engage in a bee discussion, but 
I would like to say that I do not think bees are necessary to an or- 
chard's success; I wouldn't give a man a cent a hive for bees to put 
in the orchard. I agree when it comes to plums or pears, or some 
fruit trees that it may be essential ; to the Bartlett pear and Miner 
plums I think they are almost essential to success, but when it comes 
to apples I do not think it is essential for success. 

Mr. Wild — As to the question of the bees and paying a dollar a 
hive for the use of the bees for pollination. Now, if he is a neighbor, 
I would not pay him anything, bat if they come from a distance, I 
would buy the hive. 

Mr. Goodman — I think I would tell a man, if I had an orchard that 
he could put his bees in there if he wanted to ; the universal opinion 
on that question seems to be that it would not pay. 

Q. Who has Bristons Ironclad apple in bearing? 

Sec. Goodman — I do not know the apple. 

Q. How can the fruit-growers organize so as to keep from glutting 
the market? 

Sec. Goodman — I believe if we could have something like an ex- 
press company organized to take charge of the fruit, and know that 
the express company was good, have them under bond, to make proper 
returns on the fruit, so that you and I when we send our fruit to some 
market would know absolutely that he did, so that the agent who had 
charge of that fruit would know in what condition the fruit was re- 
ceived and what was the condition of the fruit there, then he could not 
say it was rotten when it was every bit good ; I do not know that any- 
thing of that kind is possible, but I do not know how we are going to 
help ourselves until something of that kind is done. These co-opera- 
tion associations and fruit-growers unions are entirely in one man's 
hands ; now, if the man is capable of taking the shipments from all 
districts, and is an upright, honest man, why it is all right, but you can- 
not get that man. 

Mr. Hensley — I think the Berry Association is working on about 
the right line. The way they have been working up the South Mis- 
souri and Arkansas Associations, they havo sent their agents out to 
the different parts where they are expected to ship fruit to ; each man 
brands his own fruit — sometimes 30 or 40 growers will ship in the same 
car, but each man's fruit is marked with his name, and the man whom 
it goes to will realize a dollar on some, a dollar and a quarter and a 
dollar and a half; each man's brand is on his own fruit, and it is neces- 



132 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

sarj to put fruit up in good shape if you expect to compete. It does 
seem to me that that is along the right line, if we can only get it into 
thp shape we ought to have it; we ought to co-operate and in an in- 
telligent way, so we may know from day to day the parties who are 
demanding our fruit and where the market is glutted, etc. That can 
all be done if we can systematically organize, and this is the day of 
organization, and I think we are in the right line. 

Mr. Paulen — This very thing that is proposed is the very thing 
that our Legislature and even OoDgress has been trying to put down, 
and that is spelled with just five letters — t-r-u-s-t ; the best way in my 
opinion for people to do this business is for everyone to put up fruit 
in the proper way. It is just the way it was when Daniel Webster 
went to a certain lawyer and asked about studying law, and asked if 
there was any room, and that lawyer told him there was always room 
above; that comes under the law of the survival of the fittest. 

Mr. Gilbert — I believe in grading fruit and making it just as nice 
as possible. If you could grow strawberries as big as that hat and 
peaches as large as a half bushel basket and had to make a basket to 
carry each peach in, in the present condition the market is in I do not 
believe that you could get one-half what it is worth. It seems to me 
that fruit-growers are just as far from any system for marketing their 
fruit as the East is from the West. Supposing, Mr. President, that you 
owned every orchard there is in the State and every fruit plantation 
of every kind, don't you think you could soon reduce your business 
to a system ? If you were going to consign fruit to Kansas City would 
you ship to 4, or 5, or 6, or 8 different houses ? If you owned the whole 
output of the State of Missouri, how many different places would you 
ship to in each city ? Just compete with yourself? 

We have now growing in this State a crop of peaches which, if 
properly handled, we can make some money on them; if the growers 
will get together and adopt some systematic method for the marketing 
and distribution of this fruit, and their is no doubt but what the net 
receipts will be at least one-third more than they can possibly be with- 
out systematic work. I think the problem of distribution is one of 
special importance to the fruit-growers of South Missouri, and they 
should come together now in a meeting and, if possible, adopt some 
plans of work that we may control the movement of our crop and 
make something out of it. They are short of peaches in the South 
and in the East, and they want our fruit, but how do we know where 
to send it. 

Mr. Evans — This question needs more than anything else, organi- 



SUMMER MEETING. 133 

xation and co-operation ; I do not see anything of a trust in this co-op- 
eration; it is simply an effort to bring about better distribution. 

Mr. Pauleu — I would like to inquire if you would have this extend 
all over the United States ? if not, how could you make it profitable? 

A. Well, when we here at Springfield have peaches ready to ship, 
the whole United States hasn't got them, and all we have to do is to 
confer with the other places who have peaches ripe at the same time, 
and co-operate with them and not send all our peaches to the same 
place at the same time. 

Mr. Gilbert — To illustrate the point I wish to bring out, I will call 
your attention to the New Orleans market ; I was there last year at 
peach time, and when I started I was assured that the shipments to that 
city would be made to the house with whom I was associated ; our 
peaches were the only fine peaches on the market; there were no 
peaches from any other state and no peaches from any other part of 
our State, except those shipped from Mountain Grove, that could equal 
our peaches. 

Had the growers taken ray advice and consigned the peaches they 
sent there to one house, and let that house control their peaches and 
only ship the amount they could handle properly, the peaches sent to 
New Orleans would have netted the growers at least a dollar a crate 
more than they did, but instead of that there were two or three that 
picked over the place and consigned to different houses, and the result 
was that inside of a week you could find a great big Blberta peach that 
brought $3.25 a crate when I first went there, selling for as low as a 
dollar a crate sometimes, and it was the growers fault. 

It does seem to me we could all get together and agree on some 
action in this matter; put ourselves under bond for at least one year 
to comply with the stipulations of the agreement we may go into, and 
make the bond in such a way as to compel us to do that. I believe it 
would demonstrate to our entire satisfaction that the thing could be 
* worked on a system and worked successfully. 

Mr. Goodman — The only solution to this question can be that one, 
or two, or three men, as one man shall be head and have authority to 
say when they go, where they go and how they go, and until we can 
have confidence in that man with absolute authority, and when I turn 
my fruit over I will know whether it is going to California or New 
York city ; but the man who is at the head of that knows his business, 
and until we can have confidence in that man or that association to 
turn over all our fruit, we will have this difficulty ; we cannot help it ; 
.someone must have this authority and control it. 

Mr. Van Houten — Perhaps something about the Council Bluffs 



134 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Fruit Growing Association would be interesting to you. Tiiey had an 
association in that county. Well, they took in all the surrounding 
counties that wanted to come in, and they charged a fee of $10, so that 
each one who came into it would feel an interest in it ; and when they 
sent off fruit it was all sent through that one man or agent ; each man 
branded nis fruit, or his boxes, so they could trace it, and now their 
experience is that they are getting more out of their fruit than they 
could get in any other way ; they save more time, more trouble and get 
more for it. It is a part of the business of this association to learn of 
the reliability of commission merchants, and they have saved a great 
deal by consigning only to those men who are known to be honest, 
where before they had consigned to a great many who were absolute 
scoundrels. The co-operation is absolutely essential to success, and 
the quicker you can get this co-operation and the quicker you can ap- 
point a man to look after it, the quicker you can have success. 

Mr. Gilbert — It seems to me that we are about to pass over this 
question without any definite action, and while there has been a move 
made for the perfection of a union for the berry-growers, yet there has 
been nothing done for the benetit of the peach-growers, and if we do 
anything at all to benetit us for our peaches, it must be done at once^ 
and if it is not putting the matter too strong I would like to have you 
ask for a rising vote of all the peach-growers in this room who are in 
favor of cooperation, and who are willing to say that for one year they 
will enter this and will go together and formulate plans aad arrange 
this matter as best we can, and, if necessary, put ourselves under bond 
to stay with the association for at least one year, and see what we can 
do, and set a time for the meeting and get together and do it. 

Mr. I would like to amend that and say fruit-growers in- 
stead of peach-growers. 

Mr. Evans — I think Mr. Van Houten has given us a good sugges- 
tion, and I think if that motion can be amended a little further it would 
be better. I am in favor of a $10 fee and $40 forfeit; that is, put up 
$40 to be forfeited in case of withdrawal, and have no bond about it? 
let the fee be $10 and the forfeit $40, making $50 in all ; the $10 fee to 
go as working capital. Now, I will comply with Mr. Gilbert's request^ 
and all fruit-growers who are in favor of this co-operation and in favor 
of organization and willing to co-operate afterwards, please rise to 
your feet and stand until you are counted ; we will say for the State of 
Missouri, including the border of Arkansas. 

Fifteen stood. 

After adjournment, the peach-growers affected a temporary organi- 
zation, with J. C. Evans as president, and S. W. Gilbert as secretary. 



SUMMER MEETING. 135 



Thursday, 8 p. m. 
Music — Ivy Mandolin Club. 



KiUKWooi), Mo. , June 8. 1897. 
Dear Mr. Goodman— As it was not possible for me to come to Springfield to the sum- 
mer meeting. I do the next thing and send a contribution to the Insect discussion . I iiave 
chosen a subject upon which most of my correspondents this spring have requested Infor- 
mation. I hope It will prove interesting to the members of the State Horticultural Society . 
I also send with this a little box of specimens, illustrative of the paper, With best 
wishes for the success, horticulturally and socially, of the session, I remain. 

Yours slncerly, 

Mart E. Mdrtfeldt. 



PLANT-LICE AND THEIR ENEMIES. 

The most notable feature of insect development the present season 
has been the almost unprecendented abundance of various species of 
plant-lice. 

Scarcely had the leaves begun to unfold than orchardists were 
dismayed at discovering the blossom buds of their apple trees dark and 
" mossy " with the minute, but innumerable forms of the common apple 
aphis (Aphis malij. So extensive and so virulent was the attack that 
great apprehension was felt concerning the fruit crop for the year. 
Spraying with kerosene emulsion, the standard remedy for most leaf- 
feeding plant-lice, was practiced, in some instances with good results, 
but in others, perhaps because of imperfect emulsification of the oil, 
injury to the blossoms was reported. All sprays are detrimental on 
the unfolding blossoms. The cool, moist weather, however, promoted 
vigorous growth of the trees and the aphids scattered or diminished in 
numbers and in most localities were found to have done no great 
damage. At present except on young or recently transplanted trees 
the lice are mostly contined to suckers and waterspronts which should 
be cut off and burned or removed to a considerable distance from the 
orchard and "dumped" in order that the carnivorous larva feeding on 
the pests may have opportunity to develop. 

Following the apple aphis, certain black species, affecting the 
cherry (Myzus cerasi), iho, i^\ii\n ( Aphis pruni), and others began to 
excite apprehension. And certainly the trees attacked did, and still 
do, present a most discouraging, not to say revolting spectacle, with a 
majority of the growing points covered and the young leaves curled 
and blackened by the myriads of the pests, that so crowd the under 



136 STATE H0RT1CULTUEA.L SOCIETY. 

surfaces that there is scarcely room for the insertion of another beak. 
Spraying at this time avails but little, as the insects are so protected 
by the distorted leaves that the majority cannot be reached by any 
fluid, however, forcibly projected. Severe cutting back of the infested 
branches is the only preventive measure practicable at this season. 
This should be accompanied by such stimulation of the growth of the 
tree, by cultivation and the application of potash fertilizers as is 
possible. The rest may be left to nature, who, now that warm weather 
has set in, is marshalling her parasitic and cannibalistic hosts against 
the sap-sucking millions and will soon have them in subjection. 

Neither the vineyard, the small fruits, the vegetable nor the flower 
garden have this year escaped a disastrous visitation of the same 
ubiquitous pests. Among the small fruits currants have especially 
suffered, a large proportion of the leaves showing from the upper side 
the dropsical puffiness and discoloration that tells of the colonies of vo- 
racious pale green lice which make their home in the concavities of the 
under surface. These, as well as the black plant-lice of the grape 
(Aphis vitis)^Q.2Xi\i^ dislodged — and probably by that means destroyed 
— by pyrethrum powder, tobacco dust or air-slacked lime, applied with 
an insect-powder puff or bellows, of which there are numerous patents. 

In the flower garden the most unmanageable species is that which 
attacks the honey-suckles. Small plants may be cleared by smoking or 
steaming under some sort of tent-like cover. Tobacco should be used, 
either the stems or coarse leaves slightly dampened and burned over 
charcoal, or the fumes from a tea, or the extract of tobacco poured into 
a vessel of boiling water. Spraying with the two latter preparations 
of tobacco is measurably effective, except where the insects are too 
much protected by the density and curling of the foliage. 

In our own garden two large plants were cut to the ground while 
in full bloom and the tops burned as the easiest way of preventing the 
spread of the pest. 

Several extracts of tobacco are now in use by florists in prefer- 
ence to fumigation by burning the stems or leaves. 

A friend of the writer uses an extract called the " rose-leaf brand, 
which is poured into boiling water in the proporLion of an ounce to a 
gallon of water, and thus disseminated as steam through the tightly- 
closed plant-houses, all the employes meanwhile taking good care to 
keep outside, as the fumes are very poisonous. 

The peculiar and complicated developments of the Aphididae 
make them at once the most interesting and the most diflScult subjects 
of a study afforded by the insect world. Their prodigiously rapid 
multiplication, viviparously, at certain seasons of the year, instead of 



SUMMER MEETING. 137 

by the slower method of the lajiog and hatching of eggs, as is the 
rale iu the developmeut of insects, accounts for their appearance in 
such vast numbers, and, insignificant as they are individually, places 
them in the rank of the most formidable enemies of vegetation. 

The life history of the various species, though subject to much 
variation, may be summarized as follows: 

Very early iu the spring single aphids hatch here and there on the 
swelling buds of the plants subject to them. Bach of these becomes 
what is called a "stem mother," and is capable of a certain kind of repro- 
duction without mating. In about a week, if the season is favorable, 
this insect, of which the average size is about that of a mustard seed, 
begins to produce living and fully formed young by a process similar 
to budding in plants. From six to ten are often brought forth in 
twenty-four hours. The first act of each of the young is to plunge its 
invisibly fine beak into the tissues of the leaf on which it finds itself 
and begin extracting the sap. In from four to six days it also begins 
to reproduce in the same manner and quite as rapidly as the stem 
mother, which, in the meantime, has gone at the same rate, adding to 
her colony. In this way the crowded groups, so often noticed, are 
easily accounted for. 

Later in the season when the leaves and young shoots are not so 
full of sap the individuals scatter more, and on the worst infested 
plants where the foliage has begun to dry, a large proportion suddenly 
acquire wings and are thus enabled to migrate to new food plants. 
Indeed, this migrant form develops, after a time, in every colony, even 
when tht^re is no lack of nourishment. In the autumn, in most species, 
winged males and true wingless females appear and, after pairing, the 
latter seek the tips of the new shoots or scatter over the bark of trees 
and lay the eggs from which the stem mothers are produced the fol- 
lowing spring. These winter eggs, usually black, shining atoms with 
very hard shells, are difficult to destroy, but a thorough drenching 
with rather strong kerosene emulsion, or whale oil soap suds, which 
may be used with safety on a tree or shrub in its leafless state, will 
prevent hatching and thus nip the whole plant-louse plague in the bud. 

Those who suffered so severely from these pests this spring should 
bear this fact in mind and treat their trees according to directions dur- 
ing mild spells in winter or very early in the spring. 

It is almost exasperating to see what provision nature has made 
against the extinction of these, to us, so objectionable forms of life. 
The species that are destructive to annual or herbaceous vegetation, 
in the autumn instinctively migrate to shrubs and trees or to the roots 
of grasses or other perennials on which, in the spring, the stetn moth- 



138 STA.TE HORTICULTURAL SOCIEIY. 

ers appear, and the first generation or two are born, winged forms de- 
veloping as soon as the plants, which they more especially affect, are 
sufficiently grown to afford them support. 

Examples of this change of food plant are found in the destructive 
hop-louse, the eggs and the spring broods of which occur on the plum ; 
and of the melon-louse which has been traced to the roots of the straw- 
berry and other low growing perennials. In a few other cases there is 
evidence that the eggs carelessly dropped to the ground are gathered 
up by the sharp-eyed ants and preserved in their galleries until spring, 
and then brought by them to the plants upon which they subsist. This 
is not benevolence on the part of the ants, but a provident instinct 
for their own future enjoyment, as it is well known that they are ex- 
ceedingly fond of so-called " honey dew " which most aphids excrete. 
Prof. Forbes, of Illinois, who has studied with great perseverance the 
obscure life-history of the corn-root aphis {Aphis maidis) has found 
that that the sexed individuals are carried by a species of ant to its 
nest in the late fall. There the eggs are laid, which are cared' for by 
the ants throughout the winter, and when hatching takes place, long 
before the corn has began to grow, the tiny aphids are carried to roots 
of grass or weeds upon whose juices they make shift to exist until the 
corn is ready, when they are transferred through underground galleries 
to their preferred food plant, and are continually watched over and 
attended to by the ants for the sake of the sweet fluid supplied through 
their honey tubes. 

The gall-making plant lice form another exceedingly important in- 
teresting group. Among these we find the Grape Phylloxera, which 
almost wrecked the wine makers of France and caused the extinction of 
many choice varieties of grapes in this country. A partial remedy for 
the evil in Europe was found in the introduction of the more resistant 
stocks from America, upon which the susceptible varieties could be 
grafted ; but a recent report brings the discouraging information that 
in Earopeau soil even the Concord roots in time loose their immunity 
and succomb to the tiny root-burrowers. It is to be hoped, should this 
rumor prove true, that Prof. Stedman's aiethod of applying the tobacco 
remedy, may be found effective against this species as in the case of 
other root infesting forms. Other species of gall-lice produce the 
pocket-galls and cockscomb galls on elm and some very singular forms 
on hickory and other trees. 

Among the insect enemies of plant lice we find fifteen or twenty 
different species, all of which render important service. One reason 
why the aphids were so destructive this season is that the floods and 



SUMMER MEETING. 139 

uuueually heavy rains had destroyed many of these useful insects, 
while the cool and cloudy weather prevented others from appearing. 

The principal destroyers of plant lice are the small handsome 
beetles which the English call " Lady-birds," and the Americans " Lady- 
bugs." As most of the earlier writers on entomology used the English 
appellation it has become the standard one. Almost every one recog- 
nizes these pretty and beneficial insects at sight, however, little he may 
know of entomology, and he knows also that they should not be killed. 
There are a dozen or more distinct species, but all have the same 
habits. It is while in the larva or growing stage in which they are not 
unlike miniature aligators — that they are most voracious and able to 
dispose of a large colony of the aphids in a very few days. 

Next to the lady-birds in point of usefulness are the somewhat 
similarly shaped " Aphis Lions," the young of two or three species of 
lace-wing llies. After these come the syrphus flies, whose legless and 
headless larvae look like slender jelly-like slugs. They also require a 
great many aphids to nourish them to perfection. The soldier beetles 
in their running about also enjoy a feast of the sweet and juicy animated 
atoms whenever they come across them. So likewise does the red 
paper-making wasp, Polistes Riibiginosus, whom I have observed to 
gobble up a whole colony at a meal. The tree crickets also make use 
of aphids exclusively as their " baby food," although when mature they 
do some damage to vegetation. Some other insects might be added 
to this "roll of honor," but those mentioned are the most dependable 
of our allies against the minute myriads, that without their interposi- 
tion would soon sweep vegetation from the face of the earth. Warm 
sunny weather brings them out in thousands to the rescue, and we 
may take courage in the certainty that the '■ Aphis plague" will soon 

subside. 

Mary E. Murtfeldt, Kirkwood, Mo. 



Violin solo — Prof. Kelly. 



SOME REMINISCENCES OP HORTICULTURE. 

Mr. President and Members of the Mo. State Horticultural Society 
— I flee that you have honored me by a place on your program to give 
you "Some Reminiscences of Missouri Horticulture," and as I cannot 
be with you in person, as it would certainly be a "feast of reason and 
a flow of soul" to meet my many old friends once more, grasp their 



140 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

kindly hands and exchange experiences, I will try to do the next best 
thing, and send this paper as a substitute. 

When my memory carries me back over nearly 60 years, when as 
a boy of 10, I first, the youngest of our family of six, father, mother, 
two sisters, brother Fred and myself, least and last, came to Missouri 
and landed at St. Louis, I can hardly realize the vast changes which 
have taken place since then, especially in Horticulture. St. Louis was 
then a village of hardly 8,000, mostly built by the first French settlers, 
and strung out along the banks of the Mississippi river, with one open 
market place at the foot of Market street. The few fruits lo be found 
there were mostly in the old French gardens and seldom seen in mar- 
ket. I remember some immense pear trees in Vena hall gardens, the 
southern part of town, then owned by the Soulard family, which bore 
very good fruit, but were considered a great rarity. The tomato bad 
just been introduced, but was scarce in market yet and only appre- 
ciated by a few. To initiate us into farming father had rented 10 acres 
4 miles south of town, on Payne's farm, v/here we cultivated vegeta- 
bles for market the first summer, and my brother and mys-elf had to 
start for market every morning at 2 o'clock to be there by daylight 
ready for business. But I will not tire you with personal experiences, 
only in so far as they are connected with the subject. The next spring 
we moved to the backwoods, 4 miles south of Hermann, where father, 
as stockholder of the German Immigration Society, had purchased 
200 acres of land. The place .was an entire wilderness where a log 
house had been erected during the winter, and about an acre of land 
cleared around it from a dense grove of timber, which father intended 
to have for an orchard. He had collected a few peach jets the pre- 
vious fall of the best varieties he could find ; a friend had presented 
him with a small apple tree as something very choice, which, when it 
bore fruit, turned out the old Rawles Janet. These, with a seedling, 
my mother found in the woods and some sprouts of apples from old 
orchards, then the usual way to plant new ones, were carefully planted ; 
all grew and laid the foundation for a family orchard. This was then 
the usual manner to supply the families of the few early settlers with 
fruit; grafting and budding were almost unknown sciences, and as the 
old trees were all seedlings, the suckers reproduced themselves. The 
woods were full of wild fruits of different kinds — the Virginia cherry, 
wild plums, some of these very good, large and sweet; the neighbor- 
ing thickets abounded with numberless varieties of the summer grape 
(Vitis Nestivalis), and the creek bottoms with frost grape; some black 
cap raspberries, blackberries and persimmons, the small prairies with 
wild strawberries ; and it became my Sunday pastime and recreation 



SUMMER MEETING. 141 

to find the best varieties and plants and bring them home as a welcome 
treat to the family. Some of the plums and summer j~"jpes were es- 
pecially fine, and I have often thought since that they ought to have 
been preserved, but when I became familiar with propagation later on 
the best had disappeared. Or was it only the glamour of a boy's fancy 
which made them look and taste so good then 1 

So we lived along for a number of years. Oar orchard bore it» 
first fruit, the peaches mostly cling-stones, and ripening nearly at the 
same time, but we thought them excellent ; no doubt our best policy, 
for " When ignorance is bliss, 'twere folly to be wise." There was very 
little communication with the outer world — in summer by steam-boat; 
in winter by a mail-rider once a week, provided wind and rain permit- 
ted. Postage was 25 cents a letter. How could we know much of the 
advances which the country east was making ? We cultivated our 
field crops by hand, some 40 acres of land, and certainly had enough 
of hard and daily toil. 

The next indication of an advance we perceived came from a Mr. 
Heinrich, who came from Ohio to Hermann, bringing some choice 
peach trees and a few vines with him, which were planted in a lot on 
the corner of First and Schiller streets. This must have been about 
1842-3, as they bore fruit in 1844-5. Also some Isabella vines, planted 
in an arbor by Mr. Fugger on the opposite corner. When they com- 
menced to bear we saw the great difference between them and our 
seedlings, and began to hanker after better fruits. The small begin- 
nings made by Fugger & Langendoerfer with the Isabella and Catawba 
were so successful that a club was made up to send for cuttings to 
Cincinnati, which arrived on the deck of a steam-boat, fully exposed 
to the sun, and had to be soaked several days before they became fresh 
enough to plant. Of these I planted 300 on my father's farm, who was 
one of the subscribers, in spring of 1847, my first initiation to viti- 
culture. Mr. Michael Poeschell had planted a small vineyard of Ca- 
tawbas in 1844, of which in 1846 he made 1,200 gallons of wine from 
two thirds of an acre, and sold some of it at $4.00 per gallon. This 
gave the first inpetus to grape culture in that neighborhood. The 
father of our present esteemed friend, Jacob Rommel, Sr,, was also 
one of the pioneers in this branch, as also in fruit culture. But the 
main impetus to that neighborhood was given by Charles Teubner, 
father of your present member, who came to Hermann in the winter of 
1846-7, purchased the old Ellison place just below, and imported a 
large lot of fruit trees of all kinds, several thousand, as well as about 
3,000 grape vines, strawberries and other small fruits, and converted 
the eastern hill-side, about 30 acres, into an orchard and vineyard of 



142 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

the choicest varieties then knowu, with an old orchard already on the 
place as a basis. The trees were mostly purchased from the Sayers 
Nursery at Cincinnati, but he also brought the Herbemont, Ohio Segar 
Box and Elsinbnrgh grapes from Longworth's nurseries. Among the 
peaches then introduced for the first time I will name Early York and 
Yellow Alberge, then the earliest, Early Tillotson, Yellow Barctrizie, 
Morris' Ked, Royal George, President, Old Mixon, cling and free, 
Brnnort, Morris' White Rareri, Crawford's Late, Columbia, Heath 
Cling. The apples included all the best Eastern known varieties, early 
and late; pears. Early Madeline, Bloodgood,Bartlett, White Dogenne, 
Snkel, Buerres Boec, St. Germain, etc.; cherries, Mayduke, Black Tar- 
varian, Gov. Wood, Napoleon and Holland Bigarreau, etc.; several 
varieties of apricots, nectarines and quinces ; strawberries. Early 
Scarlet, Longworth Prolific and Hovey's seedling. I am thus explicit 
because this plantation was the nucleus from which thousands of or- 
chards were planted afterwards, which came from the nursery of 
Husmann & Manwaring. 

The sudden death of my father in November, 1847, and the sale 
of the farm the following winter, changed the current of my life, and 
led me, a raw country boy of 20, brought up in the backwoods, to 
adopt horticulture, for which I always had a longing, as my profession. 
Mr. Teubner had married my sister, Josephine, the summer before, and 
offered me a position with them on his fruit farm, which I gladly ac- 
cepted. I helped him to take care of his orchard and vineyard, which 
produced its first fruits in 1849. So far I had seen little of the outside 
world, but with the natural hankering of all young men, I desired to 
see more, and embarked, against his protest and that of my sister, in 
a trip to California, then not the leading state in horticulture, as is now, 
but only the Golconda, of which its possibilities for other productions 
were not even surmised ; but its glorious climate captivated me even 
then. But, after roughing it in the mines for 15 months, I received a 
letter from my beloved sister, bringing the sad news of Mr. Teubner's 
death, and requesting me to come home and help her to take care of 
the place and her two little children. Such an appeal I could not 
resist, and bid adieu to California and its golden prospects. 

When I arrived in March, 1852, 1 found my hands full of work, as 
the place, fine as it was, had necessarily been neglected since its owner's 
death. But I had had a fore-taste of horticulture, and though I had 
never grafted a tree or budded a peach, I thought with the help of 
good books I would learn to do so. I found Downings' " Fruits and 
Fruit Trees of America," Thomas' " American Fruit Culturist " and 
Kendricks' " Work on Fruits." These I studied by night, sometimes 



SUMMER MEETING. 143 

until 12 o'clock, for the days were taken up with incessant work. From 
these I learnt the theory of grafting and bndding. Mr. Teubner had 
commenced a small nursery, only a few hundred trees, to mostly fill 
vacancies in his own orchard. I read up on varieties and then tried 
grafting myself, by candlelight, on a few hundred seedling stocks I 
found. These succeeded beyond my expectations, nearly every one 
growing. Then another difficulty arose. The vineyards of Catawba and 
Isabella, which promised so much when I left, were suffeiing from rot 
and other diseases, and the Isabella was considered worthless. I found 
about 50 strong Isabella's in the vineyard. Could not they be changed 
into something better? The Nortons' Virginia had just been brought 
into notice, introduced by Dr. Kehr from Virginia, and by Mr. Hein- 
richs from Cincinnati. The Herbemont, brought from Cincinnati by 
Mr. Teubner, had produced fine crops. Could not these worthless 
Isabella be changed by grafting into something better? I consulted 
Downing and found but one remark, " that vines were sometimes grafted 
below the ground in the usual way, by heft grafting. It had never 
been tried by our vintners, but I determined to do so, and succeeded 
beyond all my expectations. Nearly all of them grew, and as they 
were strong vines, some of the graft made a growth of 25 feet the 
first summer, which at once made grape grafting popular when it had 
not been known or practiced before. 

The splendid fruit produced by the young orchard created a de- 
sire for trees of similar kinds. I visited the Fair of the State Agri- 
cultural Society at Boonville in the fall of 1853, where I met and com- 
peted with the exhibition of fruits by Mr. Julius Mallinkrodt of Au- 
gusta ; became acquainted with this pioneer nurseryman, and, tyro as 
I was, carried off second prize on best collection of fruits, and first 
prize on quinces. Encouraged by this, the lively demand for trees and 
the good prices obtainable for them, I enlarged the nursery rapidly. 
I began to correspond with Charles Downing, Dr. Warder, Robt. Buc- 
hanan and other eminent horticulturists, and the kind encouragement 
and advice from these veterans of horticulture encouraged the novice 
to make his first attempt to write for the horticultural press in friend 
Colman's Valley Farmer, now the Rural World. A love of horticul- 
ture and its votaries took possession of me, which has accompanied 
me through life, made every horticulturist seem like a dear brother, 
and will, as I hope, stay with me to my dying day. 

The nurseries in those days were few and far between, and con- 
fined to a limited acreage. The Augusta nursery of Mr. J. Mallinkrodt, 
the Segirson nursery near St. Louis, mine and Mr. Jacob Rommel, Sr., 
at Hermann, comprised about all. Trade was conducted in a different 



144 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

manner from now; customers either came to the nursery direct or sent 
the orders by letter, if from a distance, trusting to the honor of the 
nurserymen to furnish sound trees and tree to name. No, I could 
guarantee all my stock, taking the scions from trees in the orchard ; 
orders came in thick and fast, and necessitated an immense amount of 
correspondence. Still I cannot help but think this primitive way more 
satisfactory to the customers than the later method of selling through 
glib-tongued agents, always on the hunt for socalled novelties at ex- 
orbitant prices, and who often makes a dozen varieties out of a single 
row, if they can have their way about it. Some of my old time cus- 
tomers may be among you today, and I am not afraid to appeal to them 
for endorsement. 

But I must condense these reminiscences or I will become tire- 
some. I only wish to give you a glance at "Auld Lang Syne," until 
the establishment of the forerunner of your present society, and will 
be as brief as possible. In the winter of 1854, a few of us organized 
the Gasconade County Agricultural Society at Hermann, perhaps the 
oldest county organization in the State, which commenced with ten 
members, no capital but a monthly contribution of ten cents and a 
dollar admission fee, and has yet continued until now, holding annual 
exhibitions even during the war. I had the honor of being its presi- 
dent for 12 years, being re-elected until I refused to serve. During 
the first years of its existence the name and quality of the fruits and 
wines of Hermann had become famous, and when the Pacific railroad 
was opened as far as Hermann, its peaches, apples, grapes and wine 
became known along the road, and even in other states. Most of these 
were shipped to St. Louis, and at what now would be considered extrava- 
gant prices. Peaches would bring from $2 to $3 per bushel with 
the Italian froit stands, who would instruct us to pack them in boxes 
holding 2t} bushels, and in fresh leaves, a tedious process, and which 
will no doubt call forth a smile on the experienced packer of today. 
But I recollect that a single large tree of Royal George brought me 
$26 at St. Louis, all being sold at $3 per bushel. We were not troubled 
with curculio or maggots in peaches then, nor codlin moths in apples 
and pears, and could count on a fair crop of peaches every other year. 

Missouri, therefore, seemed a paradise for fruit-growers at that 
time, and horticulturists from other states had their attention drawn 
to it, among them F. M. Elliott, the distinguished but somewhat eccen- 
tric author of the Western Fruit Book. He established an ornamental 
nursery near Eureka, St. Louis county, and with him originated the 
idea of a State Pomological Society. The matter was talked over with 
some St. Louis friends, and in the winter of 1857-8 about a dozen of 



SUMMER MEETING. 145 

US from the lower part of the State ran up to Jefferson City on the 
afternoon train to attempt an organization, while the Legislature was 
in session. The town was crowded, and we had difficulty in finding 
accommodations, which were at last secured in a large room at the Ten- 
nessee House, three in a bed. A caucus was held that night. It is so 
long ago that my memory fails to give all the names present, but as near 
as I can recollect they were Elliott, Mr. Garnett of St. Louis, N. J. Col- 
man, Wm. McPherson, Dr. L. D. Morse, Jacob Rommel, Sr., and 
myself. After looking around the next day, and conferring with the 
men we considered most likely to favor the plan, we obtained the use 
of the House of Representatives for the evening, and then the organi- 
zation was effected, which was the forerunner and parent of your 
present Society. Gen. James L. Minor, of Jefferson City, in a neat 
speech, warmly advocated the plan, and Norman J. Coleman was 
chosen its first president. It may be truly said of this small beginning 
''that tall oaks from little acorns grow." Your Society is now spread 
over the whole State, numbers its members by the thousands, at home 
and abroad, and may be called one of the most successful and influ- 
ential State organizations in the country. 

But, with the garrulity of old age, I have already filled more 
pages and taken up more of your time, perhaps, than you can spare. 
Yet I have merely attempted to give an outline of the beginning of 
horticulture in a State in which I have lived for forty years, and where 
I was initiated into horticulture as a life-long pursuit. There are many 
of you, no doubt, who are familiar with the pleasant early meetings at 
St. Louis, the pleasant visits to and from our friends in Illinois and 
Kansas, the triumphs we achieved at fairs and horticultural meetings. 
But should it be desired, and health is spared me, a rambling sketch 
of later days, until I left Missouri, will be furnished for your winter 
meeting. It is good for the soul to bring up recollections of the past 
sometimes, memories of friends still living, whose circle is diminish- 
ing every day ; and of the dear departed, with whom we labored in 
times gone by. 

Wishing you a profitable and pleasant meeting, I remain. 

Your old friend and co-laborer, 

Geo. Husmann. 
Napa, Cal., May 28, 1897. 



Song — Our Country. Composed by Prof. Troemel. Sung by Al- 
bert Ponnitzky, boy soprano. 

H— 10 



146 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOOIETY. 



OUR LOCAL HORTICULURAL SOCIETIES. 

After attending a meeting like this one of the last three days, with 
the vast amount of information furnished by able and practical horti- 
cultural workers, a subject like this one might seem to be of little in- 
terest. Did not we pause to remember that all things have a beginning, 
and that, in its way, the Local Horticultural Society has just as import- 
ant work to do as the State Society, towards which we look with so 
much pride and interest. 

The reports of this Society's meetings are read in many states, 
discussed by many local workers, and have been and will yet be the 
means of bringing many good citizens to our State. 

It was the reading of some of the addresses of Vice-President N. 
F. Murray that decided us to choose the Ozarks for our home, and 
fruit-raising for our future occupation. 

Our coming here brought several others to see this country, most 
of whom located in South Missouri, and all came here for the special 
purpose of raising fruit. 

Many are novices in this work, and to them the Local Horticul- 
tural Society is almost a necessity. 

In this local work we do not have the array of experience fur- 
nished by the State Society, nor the scientific and practical methods 
taught at the University, but we can have the requirements of knowl- 
edge that make it the average farmer's School of Horticulture. 

Attendance at these meetings creates a desire to attend the State 
meetings, and to send our children to take a thorough course of study 
at Columbia. But only a small number of our fruit-growers are able 
to do either of these. Those who can be present at the local meet- 
ings, and by taking part in the work, can not only gain valuable in- 
formation from their neighbors' successes and failures, but can be of 
benefit to others by telling their own experiences. 

The successful horticulturist of the future must be full of zeal, 
and improve, not anly upon nature herself, but on the work of past 
generations. 

Wonderful results have already been gained, and the treasures of 
knowledge that have been obtained in the last few years give added 
hope to the coming workers. 

I believe it would be of great value to us were our local Societies 
to consider themselves auxilliars to the State Society, and be ready 
and willing to furnish a report of its work at any time. 



SUMMER MEETING. 147 

Oar local societies have standing committees in the different de- 
partments of work, and these should be able to furnish all local infor- 
mation in their vicinity regarding condition of fruits, ravages of insect 
enemies and other items of importance. 

In no one way can we gain as valaible information as that fur- 
nished in the State reports. Our local reports would be just as relia- 
ble, and both State and local will become of yet more value as experi- 
ence is added to experience. 

We hope the horticulturist of the future will have opportunity 
for instruction in the public schools, but the horticulturist of today 
must gain his knowledge elsewhere, and perhaps in no one place can 
he obtain more than in the local meetings listening to the experience 
of his neighbor and fellow-worker. 

He who attempts to study alone and hopes to gain all by individ- 
nal effort, must of necessity lose years of valuable time. He will make 
the same mistakes made before him, and when he finally awakes to the 
fact that the progressive man is getting ahead, he finds he is too far 
behind to ever hope to catch up. 

In all lines of action in this great world, progression is made only 
by taking advantage of knowledge already gained and working ahead 
from there. 

One of our great needs is to get the people to attend these local 
meetings in larger numbers. 

Our home Society is not yet two years old and has a membership 
of 94. 

Our summer meetings are held at the residence of some member, 
and call out a large attendance, and many are interested in this way. 

Many condemn experimental work for the average fruit-grower. 

For the beginner, we can all see the benefit of growing only well 
known and standard varieties. He has enough to do to become ac- 
quainted with those sorts most certain of success ; but having passed 
this stage, and with the progressive spirit strong within us, we long to 
try something outside the usual line, and I contend that this is as it 
should be. Our experimental stations and nursery-growers' work on 
this lineis the best of its kind, but if the individual desires to go out- 
side of ordinary work, and do a little experimenting for himself, I 
do not think it would prove a detriment to more solid work. An 
enthusiastic amateur may become an important factor.for the advance- 
ment of horticulture. 

Zeal is the key-note *to all success, and perhaps in no calling is 
enthusiasm more necessary than in this one. The many discourage- 
ments, linked to our ever-present ignorance of the best ways and 



148 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

means, exhaust a large amount of enthusiastic vitality, and it is a very 
easential quality to have an abundance of. 

In our societies women are taking an active part, aad doing good 
work. I can hardly see how it could be otherwise. Oar local meet- 
ing are a series of "experience" discussions, and whoever does prac- 
tical work has something practical to talk about. A large number of 
my sex are natural born horticulturists, and many now do practical and 
successful work in this line, and many more will be added to this num- 
ber when we have an opportunity to get to look at this work in its 
proper light. Nearly all women plant and caltivate something under 
the domain of horticulture. 

What we sometimes term "society" presents some obstructions^ 
to the full desires of many women in this line of work ; but does it 
not seem strange that this same "society" will oftea praise the woman 
who prepares the soil for her tiowers with a butcher-knife, and culti- 
vates them with a kitchen fork, but with uplifted nose pass by on the 
other side of the street, should that same woman take hold of a com- 
mon spade, and dig, plant and train a few apple trees f She might 
raise a few flowers ; she is nearly certain to grow a good maay apples, 
and I leave it to you which is the hardest work. Kotthat 1 would dis- 
courage the growing of flowers in each and every home, but if the 
flowers I prefer grow upon apple and pear trees or blackberry bushes, 
it is certainly just as easy to raise those, and I shall lose none of my 
womanly dignity by doing so. 

Perhaps the greatest advantage of this work for my sex is that it 
does not take us away from our homes and home duties. Those of ua 
who need or desire some work outside the line usually given over to 
us, work that is healthful, taking us out into the sunshine, filling our 
thoughts with the beauties of nature, and makiug us forget many of 
the darker sides of life, should choose horticultural work. 

Possibly best of all, is the opportunity while we work of teaching 
the little ones, and directing their rapidly expanding minds along na- 
tural lines. 

Diverse studies we must have in modern horticulture. The 
sciences are not to be left out by any means. Botany and entomology 
are studies we cannot be too familiar with, Vegetable physiology and 
many other lines must be studied and closely followed. We have 
reached an age when we must market the results of skill, and they are 
the product of education. Every individual who grows fruit should 
be a member of a local horticultural society. They can here do the 
most good, reach the largest number of people — for this is a common 
interest. This is the one place of all others where our farmers, with 



SUMMER MEETING. 149 

their families, can obtain the necessary study, which added to their ex- 
perience, will make progress triumphant over low prices and high 
transportation, and bring peace and plenty to that ideal life — a coun- 
try home. Alma Z. Moore, Mountain Grove, Mo. 



Music — Ivv Mandolin club. 



THE BEST BEDDING PLANTS. 

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Members of the Horticul- 
tural Society and Guests — You have asked me to say a word or two 
about the best bedding plants. I am very much at a loss to know how 
to begin at this subject, and might, perhaps, with a dozen words, em- 
body all that I will say during my somewhat longer discourse, for "the 
best" properly interpreted would mean just what the words imply and 
limit me to the naming of two or three plants which form the founda- 
tion and practically the entire structure of our bedding system. I 
refer particularly to roses, geraniums, coleus, verbenas, alternantheras, 
and a few more with which everyone is familiar; but there are a num- 
ber of other plants that will bear mention, and I presume it is of those 
that you would like to have me speak. Of course, bedding plants' 
strictly speaking, are those which are used for the making of geome- 
tric flower beds in which the designs are formed through the contrast 
in colors, either of the foliage or flowers of the vaiious varieties of 
plants used. But in allowing a little scope to the word, and comparing 
the entire list of plants that may be used for planting out of doors in 
the summer, we can speak of a great many varieties which would 
otherwise be out of place. 

Abutilons are quite popular as border plants, making nice single 
specimens and adding variety to the display in our gardens. There are 
two particularly meritorious varieties which are noted for their flowers. 
They are, the white one " Bouledeniege" and the yellow "Golden 
Bells;" then there are two or three very good varieties which are par- 
ticularly attractive on account of their foliage. Acalypha, achyranthes, 
alternantheras, colens and echevarias are used particularly for their 
bright and 8howy foliage in the making of so called carpet beds and 
designs of all kinds, the various shades of color being modifications of 
green, red and yellow. 

Sweet alyssum does very nicely in a shady, cool spot, blooming 
profusely throughout the summer. A few varieties of begonias are 



150 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

t 

excellent eammer bedding plants if they have a sheltered spot where 
the sun does not strike them too strong, the tuberous-rooted varieties 
being particularly recommended for this purpose. But a variety called 
"Vernon," coming in all shades between pure white and deep crimson, 
is doing better in this section of the country than the tuberous-rooted 
sorts. 

Cannas have grown to great popularity in the last five or six years 
since the introduction of the dwarf french sorts, and we have no plant 
that will make a greater display for the same amount of care. They do 
well ia the full sun and produce highly attractive flowers in all shades 
of yellow and red. Among the most attractive standard varieties are 
Charles Henderson, Florence Vaughan, Paul Bruant, Paul Marquant^ 
Madam Crozy, Souv. De Antoine Orozy and Koenigin Charlotte. Dur- 
ing the last year two new varieties have been extensively introduced,,, 
and are truly worthy of all the praise bestowed upon them. They are 
the varieties Austria and Italia. These varieties produce flowers with 
the individual florist eight and ten inches in diameter. They are 
magnificent specimens of horticultural progress. There is but one fault 
possessed by them ; that, on account of the extreme large size of the 
flower they do not stand the strong winds that often prevail here, and 
should be planted in a slightly sheltered spot. 

Chrysanthemums, such as are advertised in the florists' catalogues, 
cannot be recommended as bedding plants. But many of you have 
some old clumps of the hardy varieties of our grandmothers' gardens, 
which are truly ornamental and worthy of greater care than has been 
bestowed upon them during the past few years. The new varieties are 
for the most part too late in blooming to be of any value to the person 
that wants a display out of doors. 

Clematis Paniculata, an improvement on the common virgins 
bower, which is a native of this country, is a magnificent vine, perfectly 
hardy, and covered in summer with masses of clusters of white, highly 
fragrant flowers; it should be in every yard. 

Dahlias are beautiful flowers, produce large quantities of highly 
colored blooms in the latter part of summer, and as there is a large 
variety of colors in them, you can get a great deal of pleasure out of 
planting a collection. 

In geraniums we have made, a great deal of progress in recent 
years in the matter of size and brilliant coloring of the flowers. Queen 
of the West, an old favorite, is still the most called for variety, but a 
few of the newer bright reds are worthy of mention. Among them are 
Duke of Fife, James Kelway, Jules Privat and Red Shirt. It is bard 
to say which of these is the best, but all are worthy of a trial. 



SUMMER MEETING. 151 

Heliotropes with their fragrant lavender and purple tlowers make 
an indispensable attraction for the dower garden. 

Hibiscus Sinensis, Chinese varieties, particularly llegia Maxima 
and Subviolacea, make excellent centers for vases or for flower beds, 
and when they grow to be of considerable size they are beautiful single 
specimens in a lawn. The dwarf blue lobelia does very well except in 
the full sun where it often burns out in our extremely hot weather. 
But as blue flowers are quite rare, we feel it is indispensable. 

Among roses the hardy varieties are of course almost innumerable ; 
but I will mention two or three particularly as being sure of giving 
satisfaction wherever planted. Ulrich Bruuer is a magniticent red, as 
also are Gen. Jacqueminot, Gen. Washington and Mad. Ohas. Wood. 
Magna Charta is a pink, and Coquette Des Blanches is a good white. 
Other good roses which are hardy here, but not generally classed among 
the hardy varieties, are Clothiide Soupert, Meteor, Eioile De Lyon, 
Duchesse De Brabant and Hermosa. The last list of roses just given 
is truly ever blooming. 

I might mention a great many other varieties of plants that are 
worthy of notice, but think I have mentioned too many already to 
come under the head of " best bedding plants." 

I regret my inability to be with you at this meeting, there being 
other things which I cannot avoid, to keep me away from you. I trust 
that what I have said may bring out some discussion, and by getting 
expressions from some of your members you may be profited to some 
extent. Trusting that this meeting wi 1 prove a profitable as well as 
entertaining one, and thanking you for your indulgence, I am, 

E. H. Michel, St. Louis, Mo. 



A FEW HARDY HERBACEOUS PLANTS. 

As winter passes by and stormy March with occasional warm days 
and sunshine starts the crocus and mezereums into bloom, the thought 
comes to us, what shall we plant, what kinds will best meet our wants 
to beautify our grounds. 

Naturally, most are inclined to such shrubs and plants that are 
perfectly hardy and of easy cultivation ; those that in a manner take 
care of themselves from year to year. 

In a choice selection of shrubs and climbers, a succession of bloom 
from April to October may meet our desires, but with all we are not 
satisfied, we are prompted to look to the humbler herbaceous plants 
to fill many of the floral voids that are likely to occur during this time. 



152 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

The enthusiastic lover of flowers, too busy in the affairs of life to 
bestow much time on their care and culture, will find in the hardy 
perennials and bulbs, such plants most suitable to them. 

The best mode of planting the different kinds, whether in the 
background, in clump or beds, the fancy of the planter or the location 
may best determioe. 

A list of the most desirable herbaceous plants is very long, and a 
few only of the old and long tried varieties can be given in the limits 
of this paper. 

The lily of the valley always has been a favorite; every collection 
should contain it. 

The Dielytra is one of the most elegant plants, both in flower and 
foliage; blooms in Apiil, 

The Iris are a large genus of hardy plants, in many splendid 
varieties, blooming from May to July. The dwarf (I Pumila) has al- 
ways been used as bordering for walks and flower beds. 

The columbines are stately plants of different colors, single and 
double. 

One of the earliest to bloom is our native hepatica triloba, a much 
neglected but desirable plant, the leaves are evergreen, flowers, single 
and double of various colors. 

The hardy phlox is a large family, containing many species and 
fine varieties, blooming in early spring till autumn. 

The pink has a place in our memories of the old-time gardens; 
their beauty and fragrance endears them to all ; it is often used as a 
border for walks and beds. 

The peony is a slately plant, adapting themselvs to all situations ; 
very suitable for borders in the back ground. 

The spireas are very showy, blooming from June to Septemper. 
Flowers white and red, double and single. 

The Day lilies are very hardy plants. Colors — orange yellow, 
white and blue, blooming from June to August. 

In the Nerine or Guernsey lily we have a very old favorite, beauti- 
ful in foliage and flower; when once established, blooming for years. 
Flowers, white; August and September. 

The lark spurs are profuse bloomers from July to November. 
Flowers, deep blue and white ; hardy, and of easy culture. 

Asclepias are desirable plants with purple flowers, having the 
fragrance of the tube rose. 

The fraxinella, an old favorite, esteemed for their aromatic odor, 
bloom in Mav and June. 



SUMMER MEETING. 153 

The astelba is one of the hardiest of plants. Very largely used 
for forcing as a winter bloomer. 

Yuccas are evergreen plants, with sword-like leaves, of a very 
tropical aspect and very desirable for the lawn. Flowers, white, on 
a tall spike, in July. 

Campanulas, fox gloves, veronicas and many others could be in- 
cluded in this list. Newer plants are discovered every year hardy 
and desirable in all respects. 

Those desiring to plant have a very large assortment to choose 
from. We hope that our plant-loving people will regard with more 
interest these plants that thrive and bloom with so little care. 

J. A. DuRKES, Weston, Mo. 



OENAMENTAL TREES. 

The value and pleasure there is in planting ornamental trees, vines 
and shrubs is not known by the people of our country and city. A few 
dollars and a little time spent in ornamenting our home with trees, 
shrubs and vines would add much value and pleasure to our homes ; 
and as the trees, shrubs and vines grow, the value and beauty grows 
also. As we travel through the country, it is only now and then that we 
see any interest taken in planting ornamental trees, shrubs and vines. 
The country home varies from a bare yard ; not a tree nor a shrub, but 
in their place some old machinery, an old wagon, a few plows, a pile of 
rubbish, a wood pile, and so on ; then again we see a few old scraggy 
locust or soft maple, a few bushy fruit trees. Again a tangled mass of 
trees, shrubs, vines and fruit trees all in the front yard, and it is only 
15 by 20 feet. Such a clustered yard is both unsightly and unwhole- 
some. 

I find the greatest drawback to planting of ornamental trees 
and shrubs is for the want of knowledge of what to plant, and 
how to plant it. I have seen places where they had a nice house built 
15 or 20 feet from the road, with a high and heavy board fence in front, 
but not a tree or shrub to be seen. Had these men built the house 
100 or 150 feet back, and taken $25 out of the cost of the house 
and spent it in making a lawn, and planting some ornamental trees 
properly, it would have added value, beauty and pleasure to the homes* 

And here I must say that if our horticultural and agricultural 
journals would give rules and plans, tell us what and how to plant and 
urge the planting of ornamental trees it would be a great help to 
awaken an interest in beautifying our homes, as there is always some- 
thing to be learned in the planting of ornamental trees. 



154 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

I for one have searched and looked all through the papers and 
books to find something on ornamental trees, but failed to find it. 
Much may be learned by observation as one travels through the coun- 
try and the suburbs of the cities. If one passes by a nicely and taste- 
fully planted yard he is sure to notice it and admire it, and right there 
one can get good ideas of how to plant. You can see for yourself and 
avoid mistakes. Nature is oar best guide, and in planting a yard we 
Hhould try to imitate nature somewhat, more so in large places or parks. 

Most people plant trees in their yard about their houses only for 
shade, not considering the beauty at all, and shade is all they get, but 
it is more beauty we want; beauty first and shade second. In planting 
a yard care should be taken not to plant large and spreading trees too 
near the house, or in the front-yard. Slender and pyramidal-formed 
trees should be chosen for this, and the larger and spreading trees 
planted further back. Do not plant in regular order, but by all means 
plant in clumps or groups, leaving bare spots of lawn and a clear view 
from the house to the road or some distant landscape, hills or groves. 
Plant a clump of one kind here and a group of another there. A few 
different kinds may be grouped together as they show off to some ad- 
vantage. Plant weeping trees by themselves in an open spot so that 
they can be seen from the road, the slender and pyramidal-formed 
trees should also be planted so that they can be seen by the traveler. 

Roadside planting adds much to the beauty of our homes if suit- 
able trees are chosen for a small yard, or where the house is built 
close to the road. More slender-growing trees should be chosen for 
large yards. We have many valuable trees growing wild in our forests, 
that can be had for the digging of them, and a few days spent in 
spring or fall with your family getting some trees, shrubs and vines^ 
properly planted, is time profitably spent. The white elm, white and 
blue ash, soft maple, eugar maple, sycamore and horn beam can all be 
found growing in our forests. The elm, soft maple, sycamore, Carolina 
poplar are large growing trees, and should be back from the house or 
street. The white ash, the linden and sweet gum are good trees 
for grouping on the lawn or roadside planting. The lombardy 
poplar is a slender form, contrasting pictures yearly with round-headed 
groups of trees. The bolleana poplar is beautiful ; it resembles the 
lombardy, and contrasts beautifully with other trees. The white birch 
and paper birch should be planted in groups by themselves, or with 
others, and by the roadside. It would draw the attention of the 
traveler. The cut-leaved weeping birch is a beauty in an open spot, 
not for roadside planting. Wier cut-leaved maple may be grouped 
with tall and slender growing varieties, is a fast grower and a good 



SUMMER MEETING. 155 

tree every way. The weeping willow — everyone knows it — should be 
planted in an open spot in front of other trees, contrasting with the 
poplar and other trees. The tulip or white wood is one of the best of 
lawn trees for a front yard, and always attracts attention; good for 
single or grouping with other trees. The sugar or hard maple is one 
of our best, and one never makes a mistake in planting it in the front 
yard, on the lawn, by the roadside or in the back yard ; in the pasture 
it is also useful. The ginkgo or maiden hair, a native of China, makes 
a good front yard an J lawn tree ; looks nice grouped with others. 

Magnolia acuminata is the hardiest of the magnolia class; it grows 
to quite a large size and makes a nice lawn tree. The desidious cy- 
press, a stately tree with small feathery foliage, groups beautifully. 
The European birch, a native of Southern Europe, is a good grower 
of pyramidal form and a nice lawn tree. The hardy catalpa is a good 
back-ground for the yard, as it contrasts well;with others. We have a 
large variety of evergreens, but some of the largest are not suitable 
for a front lawn or small yard, but make pretty back-grounds. The 
Norway spruce, Scotch pine, Austrian pine, white pine and red cedar 
should be used for suburban grounds, farm yards and for the screen 
of unsightly objects, such as out-buildings and back-yards. It can 
also be used for ornamental wind-breaks for winter protection from 
prevailing winds. Great comfort could be obtained for man and beast 
by planting groups of these evergreens so they would shut off the 
prevailing winter winds, and would be a very striking and beautiful 
picture in the winter landscape. In addition to those named for a 
shelter belt, I mention the Am. Arbor virse and Siberian Arbor vitsefor 
ornamental hedge purpose; the white spruce and blue spruce, balsam 
fir for its compact growth, good for the yard, lawn and park ; the hem- 
lock, Lawson cypress and .Japan cypress are good for small yards and 
lawns and for grouping, cluster pine. Globe Arbor vitue, sawing juniper 
or low growing for small yards, the pyramidal arbor vitte and Irish 
juniper are beauties and grow up slender like a green post. The Arbor 
vitfB elegantissima and Geo. Peabody are of rich golden color and con- 
trast beautifully with, the dark green colors. 

A word or two and then I am through. Carefully take into con- 
sideration the ultimate size and spread to which your trees will attain. 
Do not pliant too thickly ; a clustered lawn is unsightly; few have (he 
courage to take a tree out after they have grown it for some years. 

F. 0. MYEas, Greenfield, Mo. 



156 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

The report of the Committee on Final Resolutions was read and 
adopted : 

Resolved, That we, the memhers of the State Horticultural Society, tender our thanks 
to the Ivy Leaf and Orpheous Mandolin Clubs and the musicians of Springfield , who enter- 
tained us with both vocal and Instrumental music, and to Miss Evans for the recitation 
which enlivened our exercises; also, to the Greene County Horticultural Society for their 
Interest and assistance In making this session of the State Society a success; to the ladles 
of the local Society for the elegant banquet tendered the State Society and visiting dele- 
gates. We also appreciate the courteous treatment by the citizens of Springfield and thank 
the pi-ess of Missouri for their valued assistance; likewise the hotels of Springfield and the 
railroads for reduced rates. . Geo. T. Tippin, 

J. M. Stedman, 

F H. SPEAKMAN, 

Committee. 



LA.ST DAY'S SESSION OF THE STATE HORTICULTURISTS. 

The Fortieth yearly meeting of the Missouri State Horticultural 
Association is now a matter of history. It is safe to say the record, 
when it appears, will be read with proud satisfaction. 

It was a success in every particular. There is nothing to regret 
about it — except that it is over and the welcome guests are gone. 

Fortunate is the town that secures such a meeting. It stimulates 
and promotes an interest in horticulture, a fraternity that makes men 
and women more humanly in their sympathies. 

The program has appeared in this paper, and it is not necessary to 
repeat it, suflBce it to say, that it was carried out. President Evans 
and Secretary Goodman can take charge of a convention and not miss 
a cog in running the program through. The Society, indeed, is fortun- 
ate to have two so experienced and faithful ofBcers. Another man 
that the people were glad to see at this Convention, was Judge Samuel 
Miller. He has endeared himself to the people of Missouri. He is not 
so old a man as we expected to see, judging from what he has written 
about being old. A great many were happy to shake his honest hand. 

N. F. Murray is very popular in South Missouri, and our people 
were glad to strike palms with him. He honored Springfield by bring.- 
ing his wife along, and President Evans and Secretary Goodman were 
accompanied by their accomplished daughters. 

There were present also a number of prominent growers from 
different portions of the Statp, who by their interest in all the proceed- 
ings of the three days, contributed to the grand results. 

Spraying was one subject of the many discussions. If the aphis, 
and all the insects' pests are not exterminated it will be because the 
fruit-growers do not do as advised, and if orchardists do not spray 
they will not have perfect fruit. Secretary Goodman's report was a 



SUMMER MEETING.' 157 

modtl, sunaming np the results of the year. His suggestions are all 
safe and wise, and if followed will surely add to the welfare of the 
people. 

In the afternoon Miss Murtfelut's paper on insect pests was read 
by Prof. Stedman. This gentleman is the entomologist of the Agri- 
cultural College, and right here, let it be stated, no college west of the 
Mississippi has a more earnest and elficient entomologist than Prof. 
Stedman. It is just as true that no other state in all this great west 
has so strong a professor of horticulture as our Prof. Whitten. The 
two young men are doing a grand work for the fruit-growers, and are 
anxious to do all in their ability to help Missouri and her institutions 
to the front. 

Space will not permit the full record of the busy day's doings. If 
we could remember what was said in G. A. B. hall yesterday and put 
into practice, then there would be many transformations among the 
homes of Missouri, and it would not be long until this Ozark country 
would be in reality, the orchard, the berry-field and the vineyard of 
America. 

The event of the last day was the banquet. The ladies of the 
Horticultural societies deserve great praise for this crowning effort in 
furnishing a dinner that (so our visitors said) was the best they ever 
sat down to — a dinner that was prepared by the ladies, not by caterers, 
that included many of the products that are grown to perfection in the 
Southwest, including big dishes of strawberries. 

Fully 250 enjoyed the feast. Of course, this success cost work, 
and many of the ladies worked too hard, but there is this satisfaction, 
their liberality is appreciated and always will be. 

After the dinner their were toasts. Dr. Hensley acting as master 
of ceremonies of the feast. It was not dry toast, for it was toast on 
fruit. 

Col. Evans, N. F. Murray, Secretary Van Houten, of Iowa ; Secre- 
retary Barnes, of Kansas ; Rev. John Brereton, J. B. Wild and D. 
McNallie and others responded to the sentiments. 

The regular session was resumed at 3 o'clock. Just before ad- 
journment the peach-growers present organized an association for the 
purpose of handling and marketing the present crop of peaches. Col. 
Evans is president and S. W. Gilbert secretary. A meeting will be 
held at Mountain Grove the last Tuesday in June to perfect the organ- 
zation. The object is of the greatest importance. South Missouri has 
the best peaches in the country this year, and, if properly distributed, 
will pay up a lot of incumbrances. , 



158 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Secretary Goodman's report was, like all his papers, of great value 
in the facts and suggestions. It would be well if all in Missouri could 
read it, as his earnest words would surely have a good effect on many. 
At the evening session came some of the best papers of the meeting. 

Prof. Kelley does some marveloas work on his violin. He was 
forced to appear a second time. The Ivy Leaf Mandolin club delighted 
the company, and several selections being repeatedly recalled. 

The committee on resolutions reported the heartiest kind of thanks 
for their entertainment, and several, in seconding the resolutions, de- 
clared they were never treated better, and they would come again. 

At 10 o'clock the session came to an end. The Republican and 
every citizen of Springfield hopes it will not be long 'until the Queen 
Oity is again favored with a State Horticultural meeting, — Kepublican, 
Springfield, Mo. 



fr 



\ 




% 




U 



1-- 

-S ^ 



-^3 

to 

I i 

-J o 



u 

C 

3 
O 

CO 

^^ 

N 
CO 

3 



WINTER MEETING AT MOBERLY. 



WINTER MEETING. 

Held at Moberh'i Mo.^ December 7, 5, p, i8gj. 



The winter meeting was opened with prayer by Rev. Mr. Phillips 
of Moberly. 

Music — Piano solo. 

President J, 0. Evans — There is no better evidence of the condi- 
tion of the horticultural work in this State that the character and size 
of the audiences that greet us at these annual meetings in various 
parts of the State. Guaged by the assembly here before me, I am 
happy that we are able to say that we are in a better condition than 
we have been for years. We trust this will be a profitable meeting to 
you and to us. We know that we are welcome to your beautiful city ; 
we are already satisfied of this, but we will call upon your mayor for 
an address of welcome. 

MAYOR WM. J. CAVE'S ADDRESS OF WELCOME. 

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen — T am somewhat in the atti- 
tude of the small boy about to make his first speech. Some people 
th'nk that a lawyer never has such a feeling ; but your President told 
me that if I would make a good speech he would see that I was suita- 
bly rewarded for it. As he said this he looked toward those beauti- 
ful apples over there. So you see why I am afraid of losing the prom- 
ised reward. 

Technically, I know little or nothing of fruitgrowing ; but T doubt 
not wonderful progress has been made in the science and art in the 
last few years, and that fruit-growing is keeping pace with the march of 
progress in other fields of labor. Many of our people do not know what 
fine fruit is being grown right here in our own State. I am satisfied that 
agriculture, which embraces horticulture, is the basis of all true and 
lasting prosperity. I think that in fruit growing we are not behind 
any other state. Of course, California always makes greater effort 10 

H— 11 



162 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

advertise her frait and push it to the front. If Missouri would make 
as great and systematic effort in this direction she would let the world 
know that she is one of the very first, if not the first, fruit states in 
the nation. I think her people are awaking to the fact that there is 
more money in fruit than in some of the cereals. Her land, as now 
half-way cultivated, sustains a population of two and three-quarter 
millions. It might support double the number. 

I believe nearly all of this beautiful frait now on exhibition was 
grown in this State. Much of it comes as a revelation to our people 
in letting them know what can be grovrn in the State. I hope this 
meeting will be pleasant and profitable, both to the visitors and our 
own people. I extend to you a cordial and heartfelt welcome to our 
city. 



YICE-PEESIDENT N. F. MURBAY'S RESPONSE. 

Ladies and gentlemen, in response to the eloquent address of wel- 
come by your worthy mayor it becomes my duty and pleasure, as the 
representative of the State Horticultural Society of Missouri, to re- 
turn to your honored mayor, who represents the good people of 
Moberly our sincere thanks for the cheerful greeting and hearty wel- 
come you have given oar Society to the hospitality and freedom of 
your beautiful city. We are not all surprised at this enthusiatic wel- 
come, in fact we would be very much surprised to meet with anything 
else in any one of the' numerous cities of imperial Missouri. 

We trust that we have all gathered here on this happy occasion, 
not from any spirit of selfishness, but rather in the spirit of the Great 
Master and teacher of our race who came not to be ministered to, but 
to minister unto others. Horticulture is the most effective mode of 
tillage, whether the products are for utility or beauty. 

Horticulture is of great antiquity, in fact it began in the Garden 
of Eden before the fall, when God commanded Adam to dress and 
keep the Garden, thus proving that man was to be an industrious be- 
ing and not an idle tramp and vagabond upon the earth. The Greeks 
and Romans delighted in horticulture and to them we are indebted for 
many of our most useful plants. All civilized lands practice it with 
unfailing assiduity; within the last forty years it has advanced to 
a surprising extent in the United States, hence many societies 
have sprung up, and among the foremost of all, we find our own 
State Horticultural Society assembled here tonight after just forty 
years of earnest work to give you the light and benefit of our ex- 
perience. While we are an intelligent people, both as Americana and 



WINTER MEETING. J 63 

Missourians, yet there is room for improvement ; the many failures to 
be seen here and there is an evidence that ignorance and superstition 
still lurks and lingers in some dark corner, but the time for guessing 
at things must soon pass away while ignorance and superstition must 
recede and fade out before the glorious morn of the day of exact knowl- 
edge which is now dawning upon us. It has been said that Jerusalem 
was destroyed because the education of the children was neglected, 
and yet a nation may give all heed to the training of the young and 
through a false philosophy of education only hasten the hour of her 
doom. What we needisnot only a very high mental, moral, physical and 
religious training of our youth, but how to combine all these forces and 
carry them into practice so as to secure the greatest good to mankind 
in general. We should educate to more closely observe and better 
obey the great laws of nature which God has given us for our good 
and cannot be violated with impunity without suffering the fearful con- 
sequences. Individuals suffer and nations perish for a correct knowl- 
edge and observance of these great laws. 

As horticulturists, the time has come when we should be doing 
all in our power to prevent the destruction of our birds, our friends 
given to us to protect our fruits from destructive insects. We should 
also seek to awaken a more earnest sentiment in opposition to the de- 
struction of our forests ; already our once grand white pine forests 
are gone ; twenty years more and our hard pine will be used up ; our 
black walnut has been cut and cleaned up, and every twenty four hours 
thirty thousand acres of American forests go down to feed the remors- 
less jaws of commerce ; we have cut down our chesnut, our pecan, and 
other nut-bearing trees to make room for more corn, and import vast 
quantities of nuts that we could and ought to grow at home ; we already 
begin to see the evil offect of the destruction of our forests in the un- 
precedented, destructive floods followed by burning drouths. We are 
not pessimistic in our views; already the American people have seen 
the danger, and many are planting groves and forests for timber, and 
our horticultural societies are earnestly engaged in the increased acre- 
age of orchards and in educating the people to a wider and more con- 
stant use of good fruit. A Catholic priest once said to his congregation, 
that it would be far better for their souls if they would eat less pork. 
I beg to improve on that by saying yes, and for your bodies, too, and 
eat more fruit for the good of both. An old Scandinavian tradition 
represents the apple as the fruit of gods, who, when they felt them- 
selves to be growing feeble and infirm, resorted to this fruit for the pur- 
pose of renewing their powers of mind and body. It is a fact proven 
by analysis that the apple contains a large percentage of phosphorus, 



164 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

and is admirably adapted to renewing the essential nervons matter of 
the brain and the spinal cord. 

Some statistician has computed that in the United States 2,250,000 
pies are eaten every day, and each year 819,000,000, at a cost of 
$116,000,000! Now, just think of the time spent in making these ex- 
pensive luxuries, and of the tired, weary women who make them ; of 
the host of lean dyspeptics caused by their use, who have no appetite 
for wholesome food, who spend sleepless nights, grow prematurely 
old and die, when they should be in the prime of life. Think of all 
this evil, and, as a remedy, cut down three fourths of the pie counters 
and in their place use more freely of the rich, luscious, bloom-dusted, 
life-giving fruits, fresh from the lap of good old Mother Nature. 

Is there any danger of eating too much 1 No, not if it is good, 
ripe fruit, eaten regularly; the danger is in eating too little. Right 
here in our own State, which stands third in the production of fruit, 
many firmers are buying their apples, more are doing without, and 
only a few are growing a full supply of standard fruits and berries. If all 
the commercial orchards and berry plantations of Missouri were evenly 
distributed among the farmers, and all would use the fruit freely, as 
they should, there would not be enough for home consumption. Oc- 
casionally I have had men tell me they did not care for the finer fruits, 
such as strawberries, but I felt sure it was only because they were too 
lazy to grow them. You couldn't afford to trust such a fellow in your 
strawberry patch ; he would eat a peck at one feed. 

But some one may raise the question, is there not danger of over- 
production ? No, not one iota have we heard of it from boyhood. It 
is the old hobby-horse that has been ridden by a few pessimists for 
the last forty years, and they will continue for all time to come and 
shout themselves hoarse on overproduction, notwithstanding the fact 
that there has been a large increase in orchards in the last forty years, 
yet the demand is greater than ever, and the average price higher than 
it was forty or one hundred years ago, and the owners of large com- 
mercial orchards this year found themselves in possession of a 
Klondike mine without the perils of a trip to Alaska. The limited 
area of successful fruit-producing countries, the opening of foreign 
markets, all the orchards to be replaced at least once in every twenty- 
five years, the vastly increased consumption of fruit brought about by 
rapid transit, and better methods of packing and handling, to my 
mind, preclude the possibility of over-production. In one day the 
past season twenty-eight car-loads of California fruits were sold in the 
New York market. A few years ago it was thought remarkable when 
two or three carloads of this fruit was sold in the same market. That 



WINTER MEETING. 165 

fruits can be sent 3,000 miles by rail at high freight rates, and sold at 
a profit in a market where fruit-growing is eminently successful, is in- 
deed remarkable. 

In Missouri we have the most favorable conditions for profitable 
fruit-growing of any country on the globe; our fruits lead all others in 
size, color and quality. Last October our Missouri Ben Davis were eel- 
ling in Hamburg, Germany, at $6 a barrel, and they had taken as many 
up to that date as altogether last year. We might increase our orchard 
planting in Missouri three fold with great profit to our people, and 
along with it we should increase our poultry to five times what it is at 
present, as a matter of protection to our fruit. The poultry product 
for this year exported out of Missouri amount to $7,000,000. This 
showing is very good, but there is room for improvement. Last year 
we imported 1,000,001) dozens of eggs, 130.000 dozens were imported 
from China just to make sure of freshness. I wish to emphasize the 
importance of the poultry industry in connection with horticulture, 
because the distribution of poultry throughout the orchard is the most 
natural, easy and successful way of producing perfect fruit. The drop- 
pings of the poultry will help to keep up the fertility of the land, and 
the eggs, if sold, will add to your daily cash account, and for eating 
will certainly be preferable to those imported from China or from 
Canada. 

The time has come when many of our fruit-growers may find it 
profitable to grow sugar beets in their young orchards. Experiments 
are being made, and we will know more about it in the near future. 
One thing certain, we should encourage this new industry all we can. 
Each year we send one hundred millions of dollars out of the country 
to pay for imported sugar, and when we have sent over the ocean 
enough wheat to balance the account, we have sent out sixteen millions 
of dollars of the fertility of our soil that never comes back, as the sugar 
all comes from the air. It is time we were converting American air 
into sweetness by American labor and thus retain one hundred millions 
of dollars in cool cash among our own people. We should encourage 
the planting of parks, public grounds and highways to trees, and in 
place of so many forest trees that produce nothing but leaves. 

We ought to plant more of the nut-bearing trees, also cherry, 
KeiflFer pear and persimmon. But in order to carry the horticulture of 
Missouri to a higher plane and achieve more satisfactory results, we 
must educate our people up to a higher practical knowledge, of all 
that relates to horticulture from start to finish. As wide awake pro- 
gressive horticulturists, we should select and breed our fruits to fill 
the place we desire. We should always keep in view size, color, quality, 



166 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

keeping and carrying qualities of the fruit, and last but not least, the 
hardiness and productiveness of the tree. A thorough knowledge of 
our profession and close attention to details is the only sure road to 
success. We are proud to know that we have a School of Horticulture 
in our State University, the only one so far established on the American 
continent; and in addition to the regular course and in order to accom- 
modate the farmers' sons and daughters and those of limited means 
and encourage them to secure a practical training in horticulture, a 
short course of thirteen weeks, beginning the first Monday in January 
has been provided for, free of tuition. In this school not only daily 
lectures will be given by the most experienced horticulturists in the 
State, but practical lessons are given in grafting, budding, pruning, 
grading and packing of nursery stock, growing trees and shrubs from 
seeds and cuttings ; every county in the State should send one or more 
students to this school the coming session. Time is too precious and 
life too short for us to continue to grope our way in darkness ; the 
world is moving rapidly on and we must keep step to the march of 
progress, or be left as straglers in the rear to be gobbled up by our 
enemies. In conclusion we thank you again for this hearty welcome 
and extend to you a cordial invitation to attend the sessions of our 
meetings and participate in the discussions, lend us a helping hand to 
carry this grand work onward and upward 'til all the wild lands of our 
State are converted into happy homes, fruitful fields and orchards and 
many thousands are made happy by the increased comforts of life and 
stout and healthy from easing all they want of the rich luscious life- 
giving fruits of imperial Missouri. 1^. F. Murray, Oregon, Mo. 



Music — Vocal solo. 

HARDY BULBS. 

When the request reached me asking for a paper on ''Hardy 
Bulbs," the shadow of a smile hovered around my lips for some time. 

The request seemed to say to me in peremptory voice, "Now^ 
Madam, let us see you get any sentimental nonsense woven into this 
subject," and I must say the title did somewhat alarm me, but one 
evening when all alone in my study, I took in my hand the rough- 
coated bulb of a Burmuda lily, closed my eyes, put my ear to its shaggy 
surface and listened for the beating of the life that I knew was hidden 
away in its white heart. Listening thus, I seemed to see a great gar- 
den unfold before my vision, and in this garden were only beds of 
hardy bulbs. It was early spring time, and snow was yet lying in the 
fence corners, where drifts had been, but close up near the garden 



WINTER MEETING. 167 

enclosare, where the morning sun could smile full in their faces, there 
was a graceful border of giant snow drops that had been there years 
and years, multiplying and giving beauty to an otherwise bare and neg- 
lected spot. Along the grass borders, between which ran the smooth 
walks, there were hundreds of crocus blooms in all the delicate and 
wonderful butterfly colorings of their richest species. 

Some were snow white with faint veinings of royal purple, others 
deep, rich and dark, shading up to the tenderest tints of lavender, 
while still others were yellow as gold and silken as floss, each vieing 
with the other in its effort to beautify the days when flowers are shy 
and rare. My imagination led me to that garden a few weeks later, 
when I found the spiraxias, grape hyacinths, ixia8,tritolias, and lilies of 
the valley in bloom. How my soul reveled in the intoxicating perfume 
of all these fragrant blossoms. A little later there came a veritable 
color melody of narcissus, tulips, hyacinths, and the wonderfulJapan 
iris, with blooms more delicately beautiful than almost any others of 
the hardy bulbs, except only the lilies. And when the lilies came! Ah, 
what grandeur filled the garden ; one felt that to walk there one should 
wear robes of white, and golden bells should be tinkling from every 
tuck and hem of the shining garment, to harmonize with the heaven- 
sent beauty of all the royal family of lilies. 

See them in their perfect tintings — scarlet, crimson, white, yellow, 
striped, mottled, flecked with soft falls of color that barely seem to 

touch the petals as they cling, ready to fly away at a touch. Ah ! it is 

« 

too lovely to write about ! To really enjoy this banquet of beauty, one 
must invest generously in lily bulbs. Get all of them if you can, then 
mass the colors to suit your own taste. 

The iris family, known as '''flags," is graceful and beautiful ; they 
bloom early, last for years, require no care after once planted, and are 
something no garden should be without. What ails my Burmnda lily 
bulb ? Has it grown weary of my poor attempts to paint the lily, and 
gone to sleep ? I fear me so, and shall have to descend to plainest 
prose, now that its inspiration has deserted me. 

To have the snowdrops, the ixias, sparixias, the tulips, the hya- 
cinths and others above named of this interesting collection of bulbs, 
requires fall planting. In this climate, October is the best time to put 
in bulbs. The beds must be made of rich, loamy soil, and no manure 
must come in contact with the bulbs, or they will decay; but when the 
ground begins to freeze a heavy coat of compost from the stables may 
be put over them, to be raked away as soon as the frost leaves the 
soil in the spring. A German gardener once told me to plant all hardy 
bulbs twice their own depth (in autumn planting), saying that this was 



168 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

his rale, and one that had never disappointed him. In planting hardy- 
bulbs devote generous space to the narcissus ; they are such grand, 
earnest, sweet- smelling things — modest, too, notwithstanding their 
strength of limb and their heavenly perfume. Oue ought to be able to 
say more for this bulb, as it is called "the poet's flower," but my in- 
spiration sleeps in the heart of a lily, and all I can add to the theme is 
this prosey statement: A lawn or garden without hardy bulbs looks 
barren and unlovely long after the blue birds are here, and the leaves 
have come out to see how the world looks this year, and the grass has 
reached every possible corner for blossoms to brighten the sameness 
of its costume. 

We may as well get all the joy we can out of the beautiful things 
God has given us, and there is more real loveliness and sweetnesM 
hidden away in the spheriod form of a bulb, waiting to be tucked away 
in soil that is moist and rich, than can be found in any other form of 
plant creation. 

Oh, wonderful life, from the soul of love. 

Wonderful gifts from the hand above; 
Wonderful sweetness lingering long 

Like whispers soft of an angel's song. 

Blossoming things In a world of sin, 

Living with us In the mad world's din. 
Loving with us the sweet mercy of God; 

Lifting bright faces— like souls— from the sod. 



OUE USEFUL BIRDS. 

I am afraid the title of this paper promises more than I can keep. 
To speak of every one of our useful birds would take more time than I 
have at my disposal, since 99 per cent of the 300 different kinds of 
birds that visit our State are useful in one way or another. Every 
bird that is not positively injurious must be regarded as useful, if for 
no other reason than for the beneficial influence which the mere pres- 
ence of the cheerful creature exerts on the mind of man. We are not 
always aware of this influeuce, because we are so much used to it, but 
its absence is felt by everybody. What would country life be without 
the birds, with no birds on its broad fields, no bird song, no life in the 
trees, no birds in the air, no return of joyous songsters and dear old 
friends in spring? 

Even of the few species of hawks, which live mostly on smaller 
birds, and are, therefore, regarded as unquestionably injurious. I am 
not convinced that they do not perform some good offices in the 
household of nature. It is said they do great damage ; but did they 



WINTER MEETING. 169 

HOt do the same thing for ages, and birds were plentiful, much more 
plentiful than now, when these same hawks are becoming scarce 
through constant persecution f 

It is indeed not so much the farmer as the hunter who sees in 
every hawk a chicken thief, and it is simply a case of envy; he would 
not care so much about the farmer's chickens if the hawk did not once 
upon a while tackle a little of the game, which he thinks belongs to 
him alone. It is obvious that the hawks do not, as a rule, capture the 
mobt active, the most vigilant, the swiftest individuals, and they seem 
to serve a purpose by weeding out the weak and the sick; and when- 
ever I see an old sick hen sitting around, perhaps suffering pain, I 
really wish some kind-hearted hawk would take pity on her. 

Then there is another thing to be considered : Suppose the bird 
reared in the solitude of the forest, marsh or mountain had no enemies 
at all in those regions; would they not grow up in a state of the most 
stupid and dangerous confidence! The first step into the haunts of 
civilized man, with his army of prowling cats 'and cruel boys, would 
bring disaster, and the slaughter, already great enough, would be im- 
mense. As it is, through the kind co-operation of these much-maligned 
hawks, even the fledglings, as soon as they leave the nest, are taught 
by their parents the unremitting vigilence, without which they could 
not successfully perform their annual migration. 

Man is much too short-sighted to see into all the details of cause 
and effect in nature's wonderful household, and until we have learnt d 
more of them it will be best to disturb the existing equilibrium as lit- 
tle as possible. 

It is strange that with all our boasted civilizatioa the destructive- 
ness, a remnant of the savage animal nature in man, has not been 
more subdued. I regard it as a deplorable deficiency in our education 
that the churches and schools do not teach the sacredness of life. 
They preach love, several kinds of love, and lots of it, but none for 
the birds: they preach love for God, but none for His works, which 
we see and admire. They preach pity, and all claim to be pitiful, 
but how can a human being with pity in his breast kill an animal for 
the sport that is in it ? 

It is true that organic existence is a conlinual war; one life rises 
from the death of another; one organism feeds upon another; the 
smallest as well as the largest are in constant warfare, and man him- 
self is forced to kill for the sake of self-preservation. But if he siands 
as high above the animal as his superior reason, his sympathy for his 
fellow -creatures, his pity, his sense of justice and his magnanimity 
claim for him, he should be careful to take no more life than he can 



170 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

help, and whenever he is in doubt about the necessity of killing, leave 
the benefit of the doubt to the poor, dumb creature that cannot defend 
itself. When you are not perfectly convinced that the crow, the black- 
bird, or any other bird on your field does any harm, don't disturb it. 
There are birds that may do a little harm for a short time but incalcu- 
lable good all the rest of the year; I would say, be forbearing and ia- 
dalgent with them. 

But I want to speak now of a bird, which never does any harm^ 
and I suppose everybody recognizes in this picture the well-known 
meadow lark, though not e"erybody may know that it is one of man's 
best friends. In fact, there is no more useful bird on the fields of Mis- 
souri farmers than this meadow lark, and it is an eternal shame that 
this bird is on the list of game birds. 

From earliest dawn of day till nightfall this industrious bird is 
walking over our fields and meadows to secure the noxious insects, 
and where our eyes would look for them in vain, the meadow lark finds 
a sufficiency in every month of the year. It is one of the earliest in- 
sect-eating birds to return to us in the spring, and it stays longer with 
ns than most others, thus working busily in the interest of the hus- 
bandman lor nine months of the year. Some even spend the whole 
winter in our fields, and it may be assumed that many more would re- 
main if they would find the protection which they so richly deserve, 
instead of the foolish persecution by which a few ounces of meat are 
gained at the expense of bushels of grain and tons of hay. 

The meadow lark's principal food is grasshoppers and crickets, 
and she finds them throughout the year by her assiduity in inspecting 
every cranny in the ground, turning over every leaf, and searching in- 
cessantly through vegetable debris wherever insects find a hiding 
place. It is highly amusing to watch her during these proceedings, 
for, like the orioles, black birds and other members of her family, she 
is very clever in the use of her long and pointed bill. Watch her, for 
instance, when she wants to inspect the contents of a rolled-up leaf; 
see how she inserts the closed bill into the roll and by slowly parting 
the mandibles opens the leaf far enough to expose the interior and ex- 
tract the insect. 

Years ago I found once a meadow lark shot through the wing, 
unable to fly, but otherwise uninjured. I took her home and kept her 
in a large cage for seven years. It is one of the most amusing pets 
one can get. When not singing she tried to keep her bill busy all the 
time. With a crumpled-up piece of paper she could play a whole day. 
Of courc*e, she preferred insects to every other food, and did not re- 
fuse the oldest, dryest grasshopper. But she could also catch and 



WINTER MEETING. 171 

subdue the liveliest of its kind, pulling out its legs one by one, then 
the wings, removing the tobacco spit, and after breaking the bones 
she gulped down the whole body. The hairriest caterpillar was not 
too hairy for her. She worked it and rolled it on the ground until all 
hairs were gone; then she moved it through the bill from one end to 
the other to get rid of unsavory contents before swallowing it. 

Unlike most other insect-eating birds, which can only be with us 
for four or five months of the year, the meadow lark is, fortunately,, 
not entirely dependent on insect food ; in its absence she can sustain 
life on vegetable food, such as weed seeds, and I know of one which 
devoured a whole nest full of young mice, exposed by the removal of a 
cornshock from the field in mid-winter. 

While most people are only too ready to accuse birds of wrong- 
doings, no one has ever found fault with the meadow lark. She will 
eat a few scattered seeds of grain, if pressed by hunger, but at the 
time of the sprouting corn there is too much insect food to be had to 
believe that she does any appreciable harm. Hard food is always re- 
jected. The one I kept refused corn ; did not know what to do with 
it ; but she partook of all sorts of soft food, from beefsteak to mashed 
potatoes ; in fact, she ate nearly of everything we had on the table. 
In the absence of sufficient insect food she got every day her regular 
fare of scraped or finely cut raw beef, a dish of which she never tired. 

But the meadow lark is not only beneficial through the destruction 
of noxious insects, it is also a very sweet songster, and our fields look 
twice as promising and the sunshine twice as bright upon them, when 
her familiar notes float through the air. And how she cheers the weary 
plowman after a long and hard day's labor ! 

In our State two kinds of meadow larks are at home. The ranges 
of the eastern and western meadow lark meet here, and the latter is 
even a still better songster than the former ; its song is more melodious 
and comparable to that of the woodthrush. That such a bird, an 
insect-eating singing bird, is considered a game bird and killed by hun- 
dreds and thousands every year is really shameful! Oar farmers and 
horticulturists should take up the fight for its protection immediately, 
and should not cease until a fine of twenty-five dollars is put on every 
meadow lark killed on Missouri ground. The shooting of innocent 
and useful birds has gone on too long already, and should be stopped 
by all means. 

The city folks won't do it; the country population must do it. It 
is in their interest ; they need the birds to help them keep down the 
insect pests, and they want them to cheer the lonely fields and silent 
woods. 



172 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

We do not only want laws protecting birds, we want protection 
itself. Laws, if not enforced, are no protection. The strict enforce- 
ment of the laws can do a great deal of good, though it can of course 
not stop all at once that inveterate desire for destruction, which has 
such a strong hold on our people, and which is so widespread that it 
amounts almost to a national disease, bordering on mania. It will talie 
generations to cure it, as it can only be cured by the slow process of 
education. 

We have to teach the children to be kind and merciful to all our 
fellow-creatures, and above all to be just. We have to tell them that 
other creatures have as much right to live as we have, and that we 
should shrink from the killing of harmless animals as from the murder 
of man. Life should be held sacred. If we could educate this into 
the heart of the children, there would not be so many murderers. Find- 
ing pleasure in taking life, as shooting birds, makes them heartless and 
cruel. It certainly has no refining influence on the morals <jf the youth ; 
it seems to be out of place at the present stage of civilization, and 
must be in the way of progress toward attaining a higher and more 
generally spread culture. 

At any rate, let us not be ungrateful. We owe much to the 

meadow lark for the good services performed. Let us secure for this 

most useful of birds and loveliest of songsters the protection which 

she deserves. Let us not rest until she is removed from the list of 

game birds and placed where she belongs, among those best protected 

by law and the good will of man. 

O. WiDMANN, Old Orchard, Mo. 



DISCUSSION OF BIRDS. 

Q. Is the raincrow the eame as the cuckoo? and does it put its 
eggs in other birds' nests ? 

Mr. Widmann — It is, and sometimes its eggs are found in the 
nests of other birds, but this is very rare. Its regular habit is to 
make its own nest. 

Q. When was the meadow lark first classed among game birds? 

Mr. Widmann — It has been so classed for It) years or more. 

Q. What good is the cedar bird ? 

Mr. Widmann — It steals some cherries I know; but we cut down 
their wild cherries, of which birds are very fond, and now they mu^t 
have some of our cherries as pay for the destruction of theirs. 

Q. What about the English sparrow ? 

Mr. Widmann — The English sparrow is no good, but I doubt that 
it is as bad as some think it. Some say it drives other birds away, 



WINTER MEETING. 173 

but I have many other birds as well as sparrows. I take the sparrows' 
nests from our bird-houses so as to let the martins in. Other birds 
have the habit of driving away the birds they do not like. The little 
wren throws the eggs out the martnis' nest. 

J. C Evans — Every bird that will lie in cover and impart its scent 
to the dog is classed as a game bird. 

A member — Mr. Widmann expresses my sentiments. There is not 
a bird in our country that should be killed. I hope the good work of 
protecting the birds will go on. 

Mr. Periam of Illinois — The farmers themselves are to blame for 
the birds being killed. No man has a right to shoot the birds on my 
farm. The farmers do not understand that it is in their power to pre- 
vent all trespassing upon their grounds. There is only one bird that 
feeds its young on anything but insects. Even the sparrow feeds its 
young on insects. In the winter they eat the eggs of the insects that 
would batch out in the spring and increase to many millions. If we 
cannot allow the robin, for instance, to take a few berries, we ought 
not to have any berries. We are now hunting the world over for 
something to spray with to prevent the ravages of insects, yet we 
allow the destruction of the birds which are nature's remedy for insects. 

J.C. Evans — The great bird destroyers are the town boy with his 
first gun, the negro and the dago. 

N. P. Murray — I recommend planting the Eussian mulberry to 
grow bird food. It is fine for this purpose. They prefer it to cherries? 
and it has a long season. It is also splendid poet timber. Every 
farmer should plant a little grove. Town boys in all parts of the 
country are continually hunting everything they can. If we can stop 
the destruction of birds and have plenty of poultry in our orchards, I 
think we can grow fruit in abundance. 

Mr. Chandler of Kansas — Many boys have a custom of hunting 
birds' nests. I would like to see a law to protect birds and fine these 
marauding bands that roam over the country. The State Society 
should take the initiative in a thing of this kind, 

J.. C. Evans — I have something to do with the Olden fruit farm. I 
am lord over *2,000 acres so far as birds are concerned. The boys started 
to capture the birds. I forbid the troubling of birds' nests or the kill- 
ing of birds. I threatened to prosecute any who killed birds and to 
dismiss them from employment, I do not allow a quail shot. They are 
becoming very numerous and very gentle, and we think we can dis- 
cover that insects are growing scarcer. I say this with pride, but I 
think it is commendable. 

Music — Vocal solo. 



174 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



HORTICULTUEE ABROAD. 

Methods differ so much in the different countries of the world 
that it is impossible in a short article to give a clear conception of con- 
ditions as they exist in many countries, and so only an attempt will be 
made to give glimpses, without any attempt to go into special detail as 
to crops, varieties or methods. 

In the Hawaiian Islands citrous fruit grows in great abundance 
and perfection, while some of the fruits common to Missouri will suc- 
ceed. Grapes only do fairly well, while strawberries seem not to know 
when to ripen. The weather is such that there is but little difference 
as to when things should be planted, and, with irrigation, which is nt-c- 
essary for best success, plantings can be made at any time. The 
beauty of the foliage, with the great variety seen, convinces a visitor 
that this should be the horticulturist's ideal country for fruits and 
flowers. Oranges, lemons, tamarinds, mangoes, pine apples, figs, ba- 
nanas, limes and all fruits of that class thrive wonderfully, while bread 
fruit, ohao (the native wild apple of the Pacific islands ) and many other 
fruits abound in great quantities. The guava grows wild on the moun- 
tains and is nutritious and refreshing, while the ohao and wild straw- 
berries as well as many other berries abound on some of the islands 
and are very gratefully eaten by those who travel in the unfrequented 
parts of the country. The plenty with which nature supplies these 
fruits prevents their cultivation, but they could be domesticated and 
some of them would be highly valuable for their country, but is doubt- 
ful if they would succeed in the central parts of the United States, for 
it seems that volcanic soil is necessary to their best developm^.nt. The 
very great variety of fruits grown prevents a demand for others that 
would be considered valuable if they were more needed. The Ha- 
waiian Islands are infested with many enemies to the fruit grower, 
mostly imported, for in former times there were few enemies of any 
kind. The climate is such that it will be easy to rid the orchards and 
frnit plantations of insect pests, either with insecticides or with para- 
sites. The last remedy was the popular one and was being tried with 
great hopes of success when I was there, and have learned since leav- 
ing that success is crowning their efforts. 

The floral beauty of the Hawaiian Islands is beyond conception of 
those who have not been in the tropics and beyond description without 
the assistance of the artist, so no attempt will be made to give a word 
picture of the beauties of their trees and plants. But there is a vari- 



WINTER MEETING. 175 

ety of coloring on the same tree or plant that sur}>rise8 all new-comers 
to that country and is a source of constant delight to the beholder, 

Japan has a wonderful and beautiful flora. The vivid green of the 
trees, the large number of evergreens, and many of their trees are 
(like all of the Hawaiian Island trees) evergreen, while the earliness 
and loDg continuance of the bloom is a constant wonder to an Amiri- 
can. Fruit trees begin blooming in Japan in January and February, 
and each particular tree or bush continues so long in bloom and has 
such a succession of flowers as to be wonderful. Ice often forms on 
the east coast to the thickness of an inch in the latter part of winter, 
and the snow may fall and lie on the ground for days together, and yet 
the blossoms of fruit and other trees seem to endure it without serious 
injury. One of the mysteries of the Orient is that the flowers have 
little or no perfume, and the fruits, as a rule, are deficient in flavor. 
Their apples and pears come under the rule and are nearly worthless 
to those who are used, as we are, to the best that grow on the earth. 
Their oranges do not come under the rule, and are a decided exception, 
for they are very fine, especially those little, flat varieties that are grown 
so plentifully about the inland sea in the southern part of the country. 
They are generally seedless and the rind parts readily from the fruit, 
and it is easy to break the orange up into sections without any juice 
breaking oat, and yet these oranges are among the juiciest and very 
best grown anywhere. Pears in Japan are grown on trellis, but of the 
overhead kind, and about eight or nine feet high. They use cherry trees 
for park trees, and it may be said in passing that the Japanese are among 
the best horticulturists of the world, and the painstaking care 
that they give to their trees and plants merits the great success 
they secure. The Japanese are passionately fond of trees and flowers, 
and very few families fail to have them, even although not on the 
ground,, for some of them live in upper stories of houses, and yet with 
roofs, windows and shelves, they manage to have fruits and flowers, 
and the many dwarfs that they have in both fruits and flowers enables 
them to have a variety beyond anything that would be possible in this 
country. It is not uncommon to see there a tree in full fruitage that 
is in a four-inch flower pot and less than two feet high and not having 
a spread of more than one foot. Of course, not much fruit can be 
grown from such diminutive specimens, but the pleasure of growing 
them is out of all proportion to the size of the trees or the bulk of 
the crop. I^Tot a branch or leaf that is unnecessary to the health and 
vigor of the tree is allowed to grow, and, without scientific education, 
these Japs are good horticulturists. In other words, they are inten- 
sive rather than extensive workers and the results of their labors are 



176 STATE H0RTICX3LTURAL SOCIETY. 

productive of much pleasure and some profit. It was a constant won- 
der to the writer to find among the Ha^vaiian Islanders and the Japan- 
ese such a passionate love for flowers, and the Jap?,.ne8e almost vener- 
ate trees, and the tender care and skill displayed in the growing of 
trees was worthy of more profitable results, for in that country the 
idea of profit is very much below our estimate of profit, for if the 
laborer there can save a few dollars a year he is satisfied. A tree that 
is blown over by a typhoon is carefully examined, and if life is left, it 
is staked up, even if in a park, and left to live and produce fruit and 
flowers until it dies, and the careful manner in which the work is done 
shows that they have a regard for the life of the tree that shows great 
appreciation of the value. 

The Chinese are too utilitarian to secure much in the way or orna- 
ment, and so we do not see much except in the way of fruits for con- 
sumption and sale, and the esthetic part so observable in Hawaii and 
Japan is almost wholly wanting. Even the European and American 
rt^sidents of Southern China, where, with care, much could be grown, 
seldom have much in the way of adornment, and little in the way of 
fruits for the table, preferring rather to buy of the people further south 
and from the islands of the sea rather than to produce the fruits needed. 
Binanas are grown and eaten for the reason that they are a cheap ar- 
ticle of food. The Chinese being a thoroughly practical people, in 
their way, they live on that which will sustain life at the least cost, 
atid so horticulture does not play an important part in their agricultural 
operations. 

In India nature does about all that is done in the horticultural 
field, and it seems ever a rule that where nature does so much the people 
do but little. Generally there is a plenty, for nature is generally kind, 
but in seasons of scarcity then famine ensues. In India, as in Hawaii, 
everything is evergreen and a long, very long, season of bloom and 
almost continuous crops of fruits follow, and fruits become an impor- 
tant part of the daily food. The possibilities of horticulture in the 
tropics are not easily measured, but it is an undoubted fact that little 
systematic work is being done, and there seems little prospect for any 
iuiprovement, for the climate, or the laziness of the people, or some 
decree of fate, seems to say that where labor is unnecessary little work 
is done. And yet the people there do work and work hard at times; 
bat to plant trees would require work to be done for a time so long in 
the future that the individual does not seem to think that he will live 
to CDJoy the results of his labor, and consequently he toils not, neither 
does he spin (for he goes naked and consequently he does not have to 
spin), and yet he is surrounded by the beauties of nature to such an 



WINTER MEE'IING. 177 

extent that we might eavy him his opportunity, if we do not envy him 
his self-satisfied condition of laziness. But if he is satisfied with his 
condition we should be, unless his hungry cry makes us restless, in 
which case we may contribute for his relief; but if we were no more 
industrious and provident than the people of India are, we would ail 
die within a few years. They have a country that has no superior in 
natural resources, and the horticultural possibilities of India are prac- 
tically without limit, for they have a variety of fruits that would please 
the taste of an epicure, and in such abundance and of such quality as 
to make a considerable portion of their food, and yet they suffer and 
die of famine when the store-houses of nature fail them. 

Africa diifers in some particulars from India, but the people are 
more industrious and would be more provident were it not for the pre- 
scriptive policy of the government. Turkey rules Egypt with an iron 
hand, tempered by Britain's mercenary motives ; for Britain finds that 
dead men are not wealth producers. But the tax exactions fall so 
heavy on every industry as to crush out and destroy, and when we 
think of the wonderful tyranny we should not so much blame the peo- 
ple of Egypt because they are mostly thieves or beggars. Horticul- 
ture suffers from taxation to such an extent that the industry is grow- 
ing less and less important, and yet there would be wonderful possi- 
bilities for fruit-growing in that country. The date palm alone would 
make an amount of fruit that would be a valuable export product. 
Bananas, citrous fruits and even apples grow, but the apples are of 
poor quality, lacking in flavor and keeping qualities, but there is not 
much variety in the fruits and yet many kinds would succeed wonder- 
fully if there was any inducement to plant, and any prospect that the 
growers would be allowed to enjoy the fruits of their labor. 

Western Asia has many natural flowers, but few cultivated ones. 
Many orchards and wonderfully productive. The olive (oranges at 
Joppa and a few other places), the fig, apricots and other fruits of that 
class thrive wonderfully, and in grapes they excel most of the countries 
of the world. Here too, taxation depresses, but not quite so much as 
in Egypt, for there it destroys, but in Palestine it only depresses and 
taxes to a heavy amount. But the wonderful yield of fruit from tree 
and vine passes the conception of these who have never seen large 
crops, such as are grown on the hills of Western Asia. Many of the 
plantings are small, some in the valleys, but mostly on the terraced 
slopes of the hills and mountains. These Arab farmers or felas are 
wondeifully utililarian, and no esthetic notions enter into their horti- 
cultural operations. They work without system, it is true, but judg- 
H— 12 



178 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

iug by results we should not find fault with them, for, while they es- 
cape some of the burdens of the Egyptians, they have much to contend 
with in the way of burdensome exactions of government, for the whole 
system of Turkish government is a system of repression and robbery, 
and yet when we consider the wonderful crops that the trees bear, 
the long life and health of the trees, the utility of all the things that 
grow, for even the trimmings are utilized for fuel, we must begin to 
conclude that if these Asiatics are not scientific they are success- 
ful. But they have to succeed or die in the attempt, and even success 
adds but little to their material advantage so far as accumulations are 
concerned. But this subject is too extensive for full discussion ; neither 
will the proper limits of this paper allow a discussion of European hor- 
ticulture, where much of interest awaits the enthusiastic investigator, 
but will close this rambling paper with a few observations or com- 
parisons. 

Missouri horticulturists may expect some good things from Japan, 
especially in ornamental trees and shrubs, and some of their fruits are 
worthy of trial, and even the Japanese bamboo may stand in Southern 
Missouri, and if it will, will prove very valuable." From Western Asia 
you should be able to get vines and trees that will be valuable, but if 
you are not able to get any other valuable thing from the people of other 
countries, you may be able to draw some valuable conclusions from 
your condition and theirs, by comparison. You have cold weather 
in winter, blight, mildew and insect pests in summer, with borers and 
damage from mice, gophers and rabbits and there is liability to light 
crops and failure, but you are sare of the crop if grown, for here 
the labrorer secures the reward of his labor and there are none to mo- 
lest and make him afraid ; the tax gatherer may call but he cannot op- 
press, for there is a limit beyond which he cannot go. Here we have 
pleasure in the results of labor, and look on the results as of more 
than the mere money value, for with stable government, with hope and 
confidence in the future, we may plant and plan with reasonable expect- 
tation that those who come after us may profit by the labor that we 
do, and that our fellowmen may be blessed in the results of that labor. 
In many countries of the world there is little hope for the future, no 
confidence, either in the present or the future, and little incentive for 
action, for we find that when nature fails to yield her expected increase 
that hunger and starvation ensue. Here in the United States the pleas- 
ant summertime may pass, the frosts and snows of winters may come, 
and even the blizzard may sweep over the land, but with the prepara- 
tions that we make we can laugh at the storm and cold and feast on 
the good things that the Great God has given us. The unthinking 



WINTER MEETING. 179 

might conclade that we were less kiudly dealt with than the people of 
other lands, but when we compare our condition with theirs, we must 
conclude that our condition is much better than theirs, and that which 
might at first, or to the uuthinkiug mind be considered a curse, we find 
to be our greatest blessing, for our very necessities but stir us up to 
greater energies, and with our gardens, our orchards, our fields and 
farms we have opportunity to raise all we need aud to spare for the ne- 
cessities of others less fortunately situated or less provident than we are. 
So let us take courage and preserve; let us congratulate ourselves that 
we were placed iu a place that requires labor and painstaking care to 
succeed ; let us praise God for the many blessings that have come to 
us, not the least among which is a stable government and the right to 
enjoy the results of our labor. 

Geo. H. Van Houten, Lenox, la. 



Wednesday Moening. 

Meeting called to order by President Evans. 

Prayer by Eev. Ward. 

Music — "Swannee Kiver" — By Boys High School Chorus. 

The chorus, accompanied by violin and piano, was enthusiastically 
encored. 

The President introduced the following delegates trom other states : 
Wm. J. Barnes, Kansas; J. W. Stanton, Illinois; W. M. Bomberger, 
and A. Branson, Iowa; L. H. Reid, Wisconsin. 

Glenwood, Iowa, November 5, 1897. 
To the Missouri State Horticultural Society: 

Gentlemen— This will Introdace to you Mr. W. M. Bomberger, Treasurer of our State 

Horticultural Society. He comes among you as a delegate from our state society. 

F. M. Powell, 

President Iowa State Horticultural Society. 



Ottumwa, December 2, 1897. 
This Is to certify that Mr. A. Branson Is appointed by the Southeastern Iowa Horti- 
cultural Society a delegate to the Missouri State Horticultural convention at Moberly, Mo. 
C. W. BuKTON, Secretary. Fkank O. Harrington, Chairman. 



Barnes of Kansas — Mr. President, my feelings have been wrought 
up by the singing. I see the "Star Spangled Banner" and hear the 
strains of "Dixie." It reminds me that horticulture knows no political 
lines, no state lines or anything of that sort. I can imagine a bird's 
nest built on the line between Missouri and Kansas, so that the young 
in one side of the nest would be in one state and those in the other 



180 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

part of the nest would be in the other state. Would there be any dif- 
ference in the development of the young birds ia that nest? So there 
is no difference in the horticulture of the two states caused by state 
lines. I have been told that Kansas is the home of all the isms and 
cranks. There may be something in it, but you all know a good many 
good things that originated in Kansas. I always find that behind hor- 
ticulture there are pleasant homes, and love of home is one of the best 
things in this life. If we are satisfied with our homes we can do bet- 
ter work, whatever may be our calling. 

I am glad to be with you and I hope to learn a good many things 
from you. I invite you to attend our state meeting at Topeka. I thank 
you for the chance to talk of our fraternal relations, and unless some- 
thing prevents you can count on my being with you in the future. 

J. W. Stanton, of Illinois — I do not care to talk much at this time. 
1 came to learn. I find that when a man gets to the age of your president, 
he finds he has not learned much about horticulture. New things are 
coming up every day, numerous insects are coming to the front and 
new ways of fighting them must be studied out. I believe we can 
learn by concert of action to combat these things better than we can 
alone. I expect senator Dunlap here before the close of this meeting, 
and he will tell you something of our condition and progress in Illinois, 
I am glad to be with you again. You have a much better meeting this 
year than last year, I realized last night when I arrived that you were 
having a good attendance, for I could not get a room in town, but had 
to sleep on the banisters. 

W. M. Bomberger, of Iowa — I extend to you the cordial greeting 
of the Iowa State Society. We sing the same songs in Iowa you do 
here. Thirty-one years ago my father sold a farm in Iowa and came to 
Missouri. I revisited the farm yesterday. I am comparing the condi- 
tion of things here in Missouri now and in 1866 ; but it would take too 
much time to speak of the great changes which have taken place in 
that time. I fear you do not fully realize your advantages and the 
great opportunities here for future development of horticulture in 
Missouri. I began fruit-growing in Iowa fifteen years ago on five acres. 
I now have one hundred acres, and still cannot supply the demand. I 
do not think we can produce too much good fruit. You of Missouri 
have probably a greater future before you than we have in Iowa. I am 
from Iowa, but I recognize your superior natural advantages. In Iowa 
we have this advantage, that we must get our work done in the fall, 
and, for instance, not leave our corn in field to waste all the winter, as 
some do in Missouri. When I left home it was eight or ten degrees 
below zero. That very thing is what gives us our energy. 



WINTER MEETING. 181 

Our apples are not as large as yours, but are lighter colored. In 
Iowa the Ben Davis is as red as your Jonathan. I am much interested 
in the new seedlings I see here. We are trying to develop hardy fruits 
to stand our climate, and these seedlings show what kinds of fruit we 
may look for from the seeds of old varieties. 

Mr. Bronson, of Iowa — I am from Southeast Iowa. I am glad to 
be with you, and invite you to attend our Iowa meeting. 

Mr. Keed, of Wisconsin — This is the first time I have visited the 
State of Missouri. I was pleased at the remarks made by my friend 
from Iowa. A week ago last Saturday it was 20 degrees below zero 
at my home in Wisconsin. I have heard since that it has been still 
colder since I left, so I am rather glad to be away. Your exhibit is 
■very pleasant to look upon. We expend our efforts upon that greatest 
of all food plants, the Irish potato. We stand in potatoes where you 
stand in apples; but we are breeding hardy apples for the cold north, 
such as the Northwestern Greening, which promises to become one of 
the standard fruits. We also originated the Wolf River, which at New 
Orleans received the prize as the largest and finest new apple. 

President Evans — Does not the Wolf River grow larger here than 
in Wisconsin ? 

Mr. Reed — I can't say ; it probably would. I have known it to 
weigh one pound aud nine ounces in its native county. 

W. G. Gano — Mr. President, it has always been our practice to 
send greeting to our sister state societies. I move that our Secretary 
send a message of greeting to the Indiana society now in session. 
Carried unanimously. 



MISSOURI HILLS FOR FRUIT-GROWING. 

Mr. President and Members of the State Horticultural Society — 
Your good Secretary had requested the writer to prepare a paper for 
this meeting on the subject as headed above, " Missouri Hills Suitable 
for Fruit-growing." 

Why he made this selection, although there are better learned, 
more talented, more able and more experienced members in the So- 
ciety, who could pay this subject the merited justice involved, I do not 
know. I have accepted, and will try to tell you why " Missouri hills " 
are well suited for fruit-growing, if even I cannot give you much new 
of interest, still to refresh the memory and spur to renewed action 
in the field of horticulture shall be my aim at this time. 

Your hills and hill-sides, and for miles exicnding plateaus, espec- 
ially those bordering on your great river and their tributaries, are the 



182 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

very lands suitable for tree-growth, and for the development of good,, 
sound, well-colored, juicy and perfect fruit. They contain all the ele- 
ments needed, ae, a rich surface soil ; porous sub-soil, containing frag- 
ments of disintegrated lime-rock, iron and marl ; a needful elevation, 
and by that a natural drainage to promote a healthy tree-growth. Your 
hills are rich from the foot to top in building materials, fuels and prec- 
ious metals. Look at the mountains of iron-ore, lead and zinc-ore, and 
consider the find of gold in the hills of St. Charles county of late. 
And why are these hilly lands of your State so highly favored for the 
growth of fruit f They are located in a State blessed with a temperate 
clime. What would Missouri's hills be without the natural helpers, as* 
the winter's snow, spring and fall rain and summer showers, and warm- 
ing rays of the sun, ameliorated by the wind's current ? Your hills af- 
ford a healthy location fjr miQ and bea^t, aud for vegetation. The 
swift currents running alongside carry off with them the cold blast and 
prevent Jack Frost from doing damages in early fall and late spring ;^ 
carry off the poisonous vapors, injurious to animal life and botanical 
health; the cause for development and growth of injurious fungi to 
plant life, and to malarial fevers to animal life. 

On such hills and hilliNides, dales and plateaus are raised such fruit 
as you see spread out before your eyes on these table8,'fruit that made 
a lasting imprint upon the mind of the thousand of visitors at the Col- 
umbian fair in Chicago, coming from all parts of the world. 

Such an exhibit of fruit, as was shown at the Exposition in St.. 
Louis in 1895, and looked upon and examined by the ten thousand 
visitors daily for 40 days, made a wonderful and lasting impression upon 
the memoiy of every visitor. And these fiuit wonders were the pro- 
ducts of your Missouri hills. Cast your eye over these tables and 
behold that kingly Ben Davis, he originated not more then twenty 
miles south from here, down on the hills in Howard county; and that 
ros5 -cheeked pale-faced Huntsman favorite, his origin is in another 
hilly Missouri river county over in Lafayette county. 

And now I should think this should safisfy every mind of the 
capability of your Missouri hills as suitable for frnit-growing. 

But I do not want to be understood that all Missouri hills are of 
the kind as described above, for there is no rule without exception. 

There may be hills in your State — which are not fit for fruit tree 
growth, nor fit for any agricultural or horticultural purposes whatever, 
but what I did say and what I do know is that the Missouri hills 
bordering on the running waters of the Miesouri and Mississippi rivers 
and their tributaries are the kind of hills for tree growth and the natural 
field for the orchardist. They afford a high, dry, healthy location for 



WINTER MEETING. 183 

the home of the husbandman and his family and for the prodaetion of 
good, sound and perfect fruit, may it be in small fruit or in tree fruit. 

Please, my dear friends, only one item now and then I am through. 
Have you heard that cry: over-production, ruinous prices, fruit-grow- 
ing don't pay, etc. Yes, there was an over-production of inferior fruit 
that did not pay for handling. We must raise good, nice, well-colored 
and perfect fruit, and offer for sale nothing else but that, packed in 
attractive clean packages, every specimen wrapped in tissue paper, 
and my word for it you will never hear it said "fruitgrowing don't 
pay, or glutted market." Certainly it don't pay to raise wormy, scaby, 
misshaped, ill-colored small fruit. We must learn to raise good fruit. 
The fruit-grower must know his business to be successful ; he must be 
wide-awake; must be diligent; he must fight the insect foes ; must know 
when to spray, how to spray, with what to spray and why to spray; 
he must protect his young fruit trees from being barked by mice and 
rabbits, prevent the insect from laying its egg in the bark of the trees 
and if it escapes his vigilence, must cut it out In time to save his tree. 

Never let your tree bear a full crop. Thinning is one of the most 
important duties of the fruit-grower to raise a good specimen, to raise 
marketable fruit. 

If fruit-growing don't pay, why do capitalists, who are very cau- 
tious, far-seeing and careful in making investments, invest their money 
in orcharding? Do you think your Secretary tells you a myth when 
he talks of an orchard campany setting out 100,000 fruit trees on the 
hills and plateaus of Barry county? Fruit raising does pay, and more 
so on the hills and hillsides in the State of Missouri. Therefore I 
would say, plant every hill and hillside suitable for fruit with the best 
marketable kinds of fruit and crown the top of these hills with the 
luscious grapes, and by so doing you will make your State blossom 
and its inhabitants prosperous, happy and well contented. 

L, Geiger, Boonville, Mo. 



FIRST SIX YEA.RS OF AN ORCHARD. 

The life and profits of an apple orchard depend upon the first 
six years' care. Enough mistakes are often made during this period 
to make an orchard forever unprofitable. 

Experience in many things is the best teacher, but to raise an or- 
chard by actual experience would be too expensive. We must make 
use of the experience of those who have gone over the road and paid 
all the bills for us. They now stand ready and willing to keep us from 



184 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

such mistakes. The best way to get this knowledge is by coming in 
contact with those of long and valaed experience. 

There is no place where one can get so much for the money and 
time expended as at just such meetings as we are now holding. One 
need not take an active part unless they feel it their duty; but an 
eager, active listener can gather much and store up enough knowledge 
from a few good meetings to start an orchard without making the many 
costly mistakes of amateurs. 

1 once heard of two young mothers who were discussing the age 
at which the education of children should begin. One said begin very 
young, but the other thought much older; so the matter was referred 
to an aged grand-mother sitting by, who, after studying for a moment, 
replied: "The time to begin to educate a child is 20 years before it 
is born." So with an orchard. It is of vast importance that one 
should have much knowledge of horticulture before your orchard is 
set. 

One important item is to know your soil. All soil will not admit 
of the same cultivation. Trees cannot be set the same way on sandy 
soil with good anderdrainage, as they are on soil with a tight clay sub- 
soil. 

The orchard I have grown was set on rolling land, having fine sur- 
face drainage. This land was once covered with heavy timber oak, 
sugar tree, ash and walnut, and was originally good land, but at time of 
planting it was badly worn. It has a sandy loam top soil, with a heavy 
clay subsoil, in which if you dig a hole and fill with water it will stand 
for days. To prepare this soil for planting plow as deep as possible 
and at a time when the ground works well. Prepare as you would a 
garden, though you have to defer your planting for six months to get 
your ground in proper condition. Plant your trees as near the same 
depth as possible that they grew in the nursery. 

Prune the tops of your trees as little as possible, but remove all 
croches and limbs that interfere, and give the roots all the pruning 
that you ever expect them to get, for this is the last time you should 
ever see them. 

Set 25 to 32 feet each way according to strength of land and 
varieties set. 

Wash the roots of each tree just before putting them in the ground 
in a barrel of water, having one pound potash to every eight gallons 
of water. 

Make your holes just as near the size of your tree roots as pos- 
sible and no deeper than necessary. After placing tree return the dirt 
just as it came out. l^ever hunt up rich soil to throw in the bottom 



WINTER MEETING. 185 

of the clay hole, for that would be the very worst thing you could do. 
As soon as troes are set place a wire, gauze around them to help keep 
out the borers and to keep off the rabbits. 

If you plant orchard iu the spring plant between trees to corn or 
potatoes, and hoe your trees after every rain or oftener should they 
need it. Continue this for three or four years. 

To go back a little, you must know what varieties do well in your 
locality, and know where to get the stock. 

Never buy from a middle man. Deal directly with reliable nur- 
series. Have nothing but the very best stock. Don't allow the price 
to induce you to take a grade below the best. 

Immediately on the receipt of trees heel them in well. If roots 
are dry wet them and cover well up to the branches. 

When ready to set place trees in a wagon and keep it along with 
those setting. Never take a tree out of the damp straw or earth until 
you are about ready to set it. Always have two men work at the same 
place. While one is digging the other can be getting his tree and 
prune it ready to set. Four men can set from the same wagon. Don't 
get in a hurry, for your trees are heeled in on the north side of the 
barn. Take plenty of time or you may have to replant. 

I use a check-row wire, tying a red rag every 25 feet on it, and 
stretch it as tight as possible over the draws, and I have the straight- 
est set orchard I have ever seen. 

You must examine your trees well for borers before setting, for 
even one can kill your tree at two years old. Then every fall and 
spring examine again to be sure no borer gets in trees. 

After your orchard has started to grow you will have to prune 
some, but never cut off a limb that you cannot give a good reason for 
so doing. It is much better to prune too little than to butcher your 
trees. 

Head your trees as low as you can get well balanced heads. I 
prefer from 24 to 30-inch trunks. 

Allow no stock in your orchard, for it will not do. 

Keep much poultry and allow tenants to keep all they wish. 

Always have a good spraying outfit suited to the size of your 
orchard. Keep this in readiness and have always on hand a good sup- 
ply of sulphate of copper, Paris green and lime, for you know not the 
day some pest may strike your orchard. The fourth year prepare your 
ground and work it up to May 1. Get in garden shape and sow to red 
clover, and harrow it in just as you would wheat. Don't stop cultiva- 
ting your trees but continue to plow near them and hoe them well. 
The hoe is the best orchard tool made. Keep the weeds from taking 



186 STATE HORTIOULTDRAL SOCIETY. 

the clover by cutting them as often as needed. You won't kill the 
clover by frequent mowing if you don't take anything off the ground. 
This you must not do. Never allow clover to stand more than two 
years. After all vegetation is dormant, plow under a good second 
crop that you may get your land thoroughly impregnated with seed. 
Again harrow and work your ground in spring until May, and sow again 
to clover. Continue this until six years old. I prefer to use the roll- 
ing plow. Use all the barnyard manure you can get, and all the wood 
ashes you can get within ten miles of orchard, and spread broadcast. 
Do not put ashes close around the tree unless you think your tree is 
affected with the woolly aphis. Then a shovel of ashes placed at the 
collar will be beneficial. Never set one tree more than you are able 
to care for just as it should be. Set all you are able to set financially, 
then care for each one ; try to make no vital mistakes, and if you live 
to reap the reward you will bless the day you decided to embark in the 
noble work. D. A. Robnett. 



DISCUSSION ON ORCHARD. 

Q. How would you prune the roots of trees at the time of plant- 
ing. 

Mr. Robnett — Cat off broken roots and the ends of long straggling 
roots to about the general length of the other roots, so they will go 
into the hole without doubling or digging a trench for them. I dig 
holes only large enough to take in the roots of the tree without crowd- 
ing- 
Mr. Dutcher — We do not exclude hogs from the orchard at all 

times. 

Mr. Robnett — They sometimes do great damage. An old sow bit 
off a pear tree worth two dollari". They also make deep holes in the 
orchard to hold water. I would prefer to pick up the windfall and 
wormy apples and carry them out, rather than risk damage by hogs. 
They do harm by rubbing the trees. In an old orchard you might 
possibly turn in a few hogs, if there were no trees less than two years 
old. I once advised a man to turn sheep into his orchard. They 
barked his trees. Since then I advise no one to put stock of any kind 
in an orchard. 

Mr. Murray — I think we have had two excellent papers. I think 
Mr. Robnett is right in nearly everything, but I prefer wooden tree 
wrappers to screen wire to protect trees against rabbits and borers. 
They are also cheaper costing, for l2-iuch by 20-inch size, about $3.50 
per 1,000. They protect from sunscald, and young trees grow from 2» 
to 50 per cent, better with the wrappers than without. 



WINTER MEETING. 187 

Many experiments show that trees do grow faster when protected 
by these wooden wrappers. In the nursery young trees are close 
together, and partially shade each other. When planted simply in 
orchards, they lose this protection, their trunks being fully exposed to 
the direct rays of the sua which hardens the bark and dries up the 
sap, perhaps, faster than the newly transplanted roots can supply it. 
The wrappers also protect them partly from borers. I remove the 
wrappers from the trees, look for borers, wash the trees, and replace 
the wrappers. A word about clover : I almost agree with Mr. Rob- 
nett. After trees are five or six years old they may be ready for clover. 
Pigs don't do the orchard any good, but the clover will do the pigs 
good, and the pigs will do nis pocket book good when he sells them. 
There is danger of fire when you have clover in the orchard. I knew 
an orchard greatly damaged by fire. A man burned up my brother's 
orchard. If the ground is rich and the clover heavy, remove the first 
crop for hay, and leave the second crop to seed the ground. 

Mr. Robnett — Fire keeps me scared all the time. We have plowed 
a strip twelve feet wide around the outside. We also plow other strips 
across the orchard, both ways dividing it into sections, so that if afire 
should get started, we could confine it to one section. My one hundred 
acre orchard is divided into eight sections in this way. If one of them 
should get burned, I would still have eighty-seven and one-half acres 
of orchard left. 

Mrs. A. Z. Moore spoke of trees being injured by the wooden 
wrappers. The trunks were smaller in the wrappers than above them. 
Some members thought the wrappers must have been tied too tight. 

Judge Miller thought that the exclusion of the light from the bodies 
of the trees might work har'B. 

Mr. Gilkeson — Does not the sun crack these on wrappers so that 
the borers can get in through the cracks ? 

Mr. Murray — In my experience they don't blow off and don't crack. 

Mr. Gilkeson — After twenty years' experience, I think I could 
now raise an orchard for one-half the expense of wire screens or 
wooden wrappers. Trees are often injured by wire, and the wooden 
wrappers crack and blow off and let in the borers. I have seen them 
blow across fifteen acres. I use paper to keep out borers. I buy it 
reaoly cut, ten inches wide and long enough to go around the tr'^e. I 
apply about the first of May, two inches in the ground andeigh^ inches 
above. This paper is thick and strong, with a water-proof gloss. It 
will last two years. 

Mr. Reed, of Wisconsin — I have tried Phillips' protector, made of 
laths and wire. It protects from rabbits, but is nearly as dangerous 



188 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

as the rabbits themselves. The laths rub the bark from the trees. I 
have thought of using cloth. Is cheese cloth heavy enough I 

President Evans — I think not. 

Mr. Stanton, of Illinois — We have tested almost everything. The 
wooden protector has had its day. We have discarded it entirely. I 
use good, strong sheeting ; buy it by the bolt, put it on in the fall and 
remove it in the spring, and so for three or four years. 

Secretary Goodman — I have used 80,000 wooden wrappers in the 
last few years. I use a wrapper twenty inches long, ten inches wide 
and one-twelfth of an inch thick. We fasten it with No. 2 wire. This 
wire is put up in stones, which we have cut in two places. We put it 
on at planting time in the spring. We seldom lose a tree, and many of 
them make a growth of from four to six feet the first season. It is re- 
markable. We punch holes with an awl through one edge of the 
wrappers in two places, about four inches from each end. The wire is 
passed through these holes. It cannot slip off. Sometimes we have 
not found one borer in 5,000 trees. The first year we do not take it 
off at all. It protects from borers, rabbits and sun scald. The second 
year we leave it on till August or September, remove it on a wet day, 
wash the trees with kerosene emulsion, leave it off for two or three 
months for the bark to harden. It will get too soft if the wrappers are 
kept on continuously. Hoe around your trees for four feet to keep 
away the mice. Wooden wrappers will last from three to five years. 
If they rot off at the bottom push them down. They cost from $3 to 
$3.50 per thousand. 

Mr. Gilkeson — I could never buy them for such prices. Ours 
cost nearly $4 per thousand. 

Secretary Goodman — The wrappers, one tenth inch thick, cost 
more than those one-twelfth inch. The thinner ones are better. They 
don't crack as easily. Cloth will draw away from the bottom and leave 
space at the bottom for the borer to get in. 

Mr. Harrison — I would like to know the cost of the wire screen as 
used by Mr. Eobnett ? 

Mr. Robnett — I paid $1.75 per 100 square feet; you can get it al- 
most any size. I have no sua scald. It can be prevented by proper 
cultivation. Wire screen costs about 2 cents per tree and they will 
last about five years. I tried galvanized wire cloth, but it injured the 
trees by rubbing. We cut our wire lengthwise into strips twelve 
inches wide with a pocket-knife. When we applied it we cut these 
strips into lengths to suit the heighth of the trunk of the tree. Some 
of ijiy trees are headed very low. We have taken it oft" every year, 
looked for borers and cleaned the trees. 



WINTER MEETING. 18& 

Mr. VYilkereon — I find from the estimates given that it would cost 
1450 less to protect 30,000 trees with wooden wrappers than with wire 
screen. If the former are just as good why should we not save $450? 

Secretary Goodman — I advised Mr. Robnett to use the wire, for 
it is the best and he was able to pay for it, but I think the wooden 
wrapper is the best, taking all things into consideration. 

Sam Miller — Wrapping with paper will keep out the borers, com- 
mon newspaper will do. 

Mr. Gilkeson — I have fenced my orchard with wire netting, thirty 
inches high, with two-inch mesh. It keeps out the rabbits. When one 
gets in through a hole under the fence we soon get him out. It is 
much cheaper than protecting each tree singly. Paper is the best thing 
to keep out the borers. 

Mr. Barnes of Kansas — Is there a law in Missouri against catch- 
ing rabbits"? Mr. Wellhouse of Kansas, the apple king of the world, 
protects his orchard by trapping the rabbits. He has 3,800 traps. He 
gives the rabbits to the boys who attend the traps. They sometimes 
get as high as I!5 rabbits on one morning. 

Mr. Wilkerson — I believe there is no law against killing or trap- 
ping rabbits, but I would like to know if there is a law against poison- 
ing them ? 

No one knew of such a law. Mr. Murray had successfully poisoned 
them with strychnine. They die quickly, near where they get the 
poison, hence he thought there was little or no danger of the poisoned 
animals being killed by hunters and used for food. Even should such 
a thing happen he said there would be no fatal results from it. 

J. H, Monsees — We trap them in four by six inch box traps with- 
out bait. They go in to seek a hiding place. 

J. C, Evans — I would like to ask Mr. Robnett and Mr. Gilkeson 
how do they know that the wire screens and the paper wrapping keep 
out the -borers'? 

Mr. Robnett — One row of fifty-two trees across my orchards was 
left without screens. From this row we took 210 borers. From 104 
trees, two rows, one on each side of the unprotected row, we found no 
borers. 

Mr. Gilkeson — Some of the rows have no paper wraps and have 
borers, those wrapped have almost none. 

Mr. Hairston spoke of the many untested and doubtful articles 
found in the papers. If a man fails to make a success at his business 
such a one seems inclined to rush into print. He hoped that the peo- 
ple who run the papers would make it a point not to put anything in the 
papers which they cannot indorse themselves. 



590 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



NOETHEA.ST MISSOURI FOR ORCHARDS. 

In the cultivation of the apple my experience is limited, and I 
realize that there is much to be learned in this progressive age before 
one is up with the advancing prosession. My first acquaintance with 
the apple orchard was my father's some 50 years ago. The sprouts 
from which this orchard was grown were taken from my grandfather's 
orchard near Huntsville, Mo. My grandfather's orchard was planted 
from the seeds of three apples that he brought from Kentucky in 1818, 
and there are some of these same apples grown now in this county. 

Well do I remember these two orchards of my boyhood days and 
the many happy hours that we children spent in gathering up the red 
ripe apples. They were not such apples as we now have, but they were 
then the best of the land. If my father ever took a borer out of a tree 
or was troubled any way with them I never heard of it. From all that 
I can now remember it seems that about all that was done in producing 
this orchard was to set out the sprouts and tie them up in winter to 
keep the rabbits from barking them, and to trim up the trees so that 
the plow could get close to them, for corn was grown most all the time 
in the orchard. I was at the old homestead two years ago and found 
some of these trees living; they must be over 60 years old. 

Ten years ago I became the owner of a farm near this place and 
resolved to have an orchard. I talked with my fellow-citizens that had 
had some experience in growing apples, and learned what I could as 
to the varieties to plant. The piece of ground selected was on the 
side of the highway, and I planted four rows next to the road of Ben 
Davis to keep people out of the orchard. My other selections were 
Astrakin, Belle Flower, York Imperial, Jonathan, Maiden's Blush, 
Early Harvest, Red June, Willow Twig, Smith's Cider, R. I. Greening, 
Milam, and many other varieties. The orchard consisted of 432 trees, 
of which about 200 trees were ,Ben Davis. This year I sold $200 
worth of apples, and every one of them were Ben Davis. The ques- 
tion would naturally arise as to what did the other trees do ! They 
were apparently as full as the Ben Davis. The Red Jonathan began 
to fall in August, and I could not do anything with them. They were 
worth nothing in market. The summer fruit fell off and rotted on the 
ground. The Willow Twigs blighted and many of the trees died, and 
the apples withered ; and so it was when gathering time came — they 
were nearly all gone except the faithful Ben Davis. 



WINTER MEETING. 191 

I am confident of this one thing, that when a man plants a com- 
mercial orchard that he wants to select those varieties only that are 
known to do well in this climate; that will hang on the tree until 
gathering time, and then will bear shipping, and have keeping qualities. 
When I plant again seven-eighths of the trees will be Ben Davis. 

As to the cultivation of the trees, the orchard was manured, cul- 
tivated in corn, rye sown and plowed under, the borers taken out twice 
each year. The orchard is ten years old and has yielded three crops 
of apples, and has paid for itself and the ground on which it stands 
clear of all expenses. 

It is as easy to raise an orchard as to raise a crop of corn ; your 

attention has to be given to either if you are successful. The growing 

of the apple in our State is but in its infancy. We are right in the 

center of the apple belt, and we are coming to the front in this 

industry. 

G. N. Ratliff, Moberly, Mo. 



KOTES O^ APPLE CULTURE. 

After suitable climatic conditions, the next most important ele- 
ment of success in raising big red apples is to get good, fertile, well- 
drained soil, and as Southeast Missouri, especially that portion lying 
tributary to the Mississippi river from Cape Girardeau to St. Louis 
has almost perfect climatic conditions, about all we have to do is to 
secure good upland soil. I prefer upland, because such has better air 
drainage. It should be fertile enough to grow good corn. I have had 
better success with virgin soil, clearing off the timber during the win- 
ter and planting the trees in the spring, although I favor fall planting 
where it can be done. I always do my replanting in the fall. After 
selecting the land the next most important thing is in securing the best 
varieties to plant. 

For a family orchard of 100 trees I would recommend as follows: 
For early, 10 trees each of Yellow Transparent and Red June; for 
summer, 10 trees each of Yellow Horse and Maiden's Blush ; for fall, 
10 trees each of Grimes' Golden and Jonathan; for winter, 10 Ben 
Davis, and 15 each of Black Twig and Raule's Janet. These varieties 
will give a succession from earliest to latest ; all are good growers, early 
to medium bearers and good quality, except Ben D.ivis, which has so 
many good habits we can overlook its poor qualities somewhat. For a 
commercial orchard for profit I would recommend Ben Davis only. It 
is one of the best growers we have, is an early bearer, fruit hangs on well, 



192 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

and is the very best shipper; can better grov^ this variety in my section 
at $1 per barrel than such varieties as Jonathan and Wine Sap at $2 per 
barrel, as they are slow growers, tardy bearers and more subject to insect 
depredations. My Ben Davis trees, nine years old, netted me double 
the amount of money this year that I realized from Wine Sap same 
age. My late planting has been nine rows of Ben Davis, with one row 
of such varieties as Black Twig, Rome Beauty, Clayton, York Impe- 
rial, Missouri Pippin, etc., to better fertilize at blooming. I have 
always given Missouri grown trees the preference. If purchaser can 
buy from a reliable home nursery he should do so: if not, from the 
large reliable nurseries that grow their own trees. Care should be 
taken to keep the roots damp and in good condition, and before plant- 
ing always dip the roots in kerosene emulsion, or strong tobacco solu- 
tion, to kill the woolly aphis, as but few nurseries are exempt from this 
pest. My land being very broken and rough requires considerable 
patience in getting the rows straight. I plant 30 feet apart both ways. 
First stake off every fifth row north and south clear across the tract,^ 
with stakes four feet long, tops whitened with white wash so as to be 
plainly seen. 

I use as a measuring rod an eight-inch board, tapered to four 
inches at the ends, and 15 feet long, with a small spirit level about two 
^feet from each end ; also a plumb bob at one end, and this is carried 
by two men, keeping the board level, who follow the stake line and 
measure off two spaces, or 30 feet, and put down a small peg. After 
two lines are thus run, the spaces between are laid off in squares of 
30 feet, and a peg put down. For each tree I have found this by far 
the best way to get trees straight, and in line both ways, on hilly or 
rough land. 

The diggers then follow, digging the holes where the pegs are 
stuck and should be large enough to accommodate the tree without 
twisting or cramping the roots. Surface soil is placed in the bottom 
of the hole, tree placed in position and held by helper while the man 
with shovel fills in more surface dirt; the helper works the dirt in 
well among the roots with his hand as hole is being filled, tramping 
down solid with his foot when hole is about filled ; care should be 
taken not to get tree too deep. I prefer to have tree no deeper than 
grown in nursery. 

As soon as planted, trees should be protected from rabbits and 
mice, either by using veneer wrappers, corn stalks or some wash. I 
have had better success with the pine tar wash, painting the bodies up 
two feet with the tar reduced with linseed oil or water ; if reduced 
with water, soap has to be added, and heated and made as kerosene 



WINTER MEETING. 193 

emulsion. This and other washes are generally condemed by nursery- 
men and horticulturists, but after a trial of three years I can recom- 
mend it for both apple and pear trees. It will keep oflF rabbits, mice 
and even sheep, if washed high enough. If dirt is removed so as to 
apply an inch under ground it is an effective preventive to borers. 

The orchard is now ready for cultivation, which should be thor- 
ough. Presuming your land was thoroughly plowed prior to planting, 
which should always be done if possible. Shallow cultivation should 
follow at least once a month from planting time until July : would then 
sow land in cow peas, using one bushel to the acre broadcast, and hog 
down when ripe, being careful to clear away all vines and rubbish 
around the trees to prevent harbors for mice ; I lost several hundred 
trees in one winter by this neglect. Further north where peas require 
longer season to manure, I would recommend planting them earlier, 
and in drill rows, one-horse corn drill being best adapted for this pur- 
pose, and cultivate peas same as corn, cultivation benefiting both trees 
and peas. 

I know of no crop so beneficial to the orchard as cow peas, and 
they can be grown successfully all over Missouri. The Whippoorwill 
variety will mature in one hundred days and produce about twenty 
bushels to the acre, worth more for hog feed than same amount of corn, 
to say nothing of the fertilizing properties. Peas are without a ques- 
tion the greatest nitrogen trap known; they will gather more nitrogen 
from the air and store it up in the soil, where needed, than any other 
plant grown. 

This last summer I have grown several acres of Soja beans, another 
leguminous plant. They are even more productive than the peas, do 
not vine, and on laud not subject to washing from rains, is a very 
valuable plant. Next year I will plant one row of beans on each side 
of the apple trees and fill out the middle with peas. I can cultivate 
the plant longer, as it does not vine, and the peas in the middle, with 
the long heavy vines, will prevent washing from heavy rains. The 
Soja beans will also mature in all parts of Missouri, requiiing about 
one hundred days to mature. 

Afrer having tried all the different systems of pruning I have 
adopted the following system : I usually plant two-year-old trees, trim 
off all side lirabs, and cut back head to four feet. The next fall, after 
one summer's growth, I cut back to five limbs, equally divided around 
the tree to form the future head, and cut these limbs back to one foot 
iu length. The next summer two sprouts should be permitted to grow 
from each of these limbs. Triis will give the tree an open, uniform 
H— 13 



194 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

head without any central growth. After this but little pruning will be 
required, only keeping off water sprouts and limbs that cross each 
other 

If land is kept in fair tillage for five years the orchard will begin 
to bear, and most orchardists with advanced ideas would tell you to 
begin spraying. My experience is that a drove of hogs in an orchard, 
from the time the apples begin to fall in the spring until the gathering 
time, is worth more to the fruit-grower than all the spraying machines 
ever built; in fact, with me, spraying thoroughly two seasons was a 
failure and really a detriment. 

As soon as mature apples begin to fall picking should begin. If 
weather is fine I put the apples in piles for a week to color up. The 
fruit should always be put on the north or shady side of the tree in 
flat, thin piles, and a week will greatly improve the color. Then pack 
from the piles, using regular 12 peck barrels, facing with best colored 
fruit and having the apples uniform in size all through the barrel. 
Shake barrel well when filling, and fill so as to press head in solid 
enough to prevent rattling. The trade is very particular as^to this mat- 
ter. I first press in with a false head lined on the under side with 
cotton or other soft material ; then press in the head, nail and line; 
then brand quality and variety on the faced end of the barrel. The 
slacked-packed barrels will greatly injure the sale of the best fruit, 
and common fruit cannot be sold at any price often when slack- 
packed. 

We have had considerable discussion among fruit-growers for the 
past few years as to the pasturing of apple orchards with sheep. This 
season I had 200 sheep pastured on my orchard, and I consider them 
a great advantage, as they keep down weeds, and their droppings are 
quite valuable as a fertilizer. Of course, small trees have to be staked 
and bodies of all trees kept washed with the tar, or lime and carbolic 
acid wash, to keep the sheep from barking bodies of trees. 

W. R. Wilkinson, Altenburg, Mo. 

[ This wash should be used with a great deal of caution, as many 
have lost trees from the use of it. — L. A. Goodman, Secretary.] 



BEN DAVIS ORCHARD IN SOUTHWEST MISSOURI. 

We are all enthusiastic in our work of growing the "Big Ben Davis," 
prices this year being remunerative. Many others besides myself will 
set large orchards of "Ben's" this coming spring. The first lesson 
we have learned after getting our trees in bearing is that we must spray 
or quit the orchard business. The next is we must cultivate thoroughly. 



WINTER MEETING. 195 

We have also learned that in this section heavy black loam is the place 
to set Ben Davis apple trees. The drouth does not effect them so 
badly. We have just passed ihrough one of the most trying seasons 
on apple trees (as well as all other kinds), perhaps, we will ever ex- 
perience, and my observation has been that trees on heavy black loam 
carried their fruit better and they were firmer, larger and brought bet- 
ter prices than orchards on hill land, besides the loss of trees was less. 

B. Logan, Marionville. 



GROWING APPLES FOR PROFIT. 

The first and most important factor in growing apples for profit is 
the grower, for if he fails to do his part, then the whole thing is a fail- 
ure. He need not know all about the business in order to make a 
profit, but he must know that it requires his constant care. If the 
grower thinks that he has done his whole duty when he has bought 
and set out his orchard he is sure to fail. He must know himself well 
enough to be very sure that he will give it his attention. 

The first thing in order, but not in importance, is the selection of 
a site for your orchard. This should be as nearly level as possible. 
Any land that will grow a fairly good crop of corn is rich enough for 
an apple orchard. It should be plowed as for corn ; then lay off your 
apple rows north and south, two rods apart, by going boih ways with 
a two-horse plow, running in the same furrow, throwing the dirt out 
both ways ; then light furrows east and west, one rod apart. This will 
make 80 trees to the acre, and in the best shape for cultivation, for 
gathering the fruit and to protect each other. Get your trees from the 
nearest reliable nursery. Go and get them yourself. Get yearlings if 
you can ; they will live and grow better than older trees. I would 
never set older than two-year-olds. Put trees enough in the wagon to 
go around. Have them well protected with damp straw or saw-dust to 
keep them from drying out. Drive between two rows and set on each 
side. Place the trees in the furrow at the cross. Fill in the soil 
around them and firm it down well. When you have gone around, 
hitch to the plow and throw the dirt back into the row, and so on tiil 
you are done planting. Then go over ihem and right them up. 

A very important item in growing apples for profit is what varie- 
ties to plant. A mistake here would perhaps prove more fatal than in 
any other part of the business. There are two essentiiil qualities that 
your varieties must have or you will not make any profit. They must 
be good bearers and good sellers. If they lack either of these they 
are a failure. The Ben Davis is the most profitable apple I know of. 



196 STATE HOETICULTUEA.L SOCIETY. 

Now having your trees set of the right varieties for profit, you 
must give them the very best cultivation possible, for if your trees are 
stunted the first year they will never do as well afterward. If the 
ground has been well plowed the cultivation need not be deep, but the 
surface must be kept clean and fine. Plow or hoe, if possible, after 
every rain. The land can be planted in corn or potatoesor some other 
cultivated crop till the trees are old enough to sow to clover, say four 
or five years, then plow once in two years. You must now be on the 
lookout for insect pests, especially the round-head borer. The surest 
way to save your trees from borers is to take the surface dirt away 
about an inch deep around the root of the trees and examine them 
carefully and cut out all you can find, then rub on a thin coat of soft- 
soap and put the dirt back to its place. The best time to do this is in 
July or August. If it is done every year you need not fear the borer. 
Most other kinds of insects can be kept in check by spraying with the 
different preparations now in use. 

Apple trees should never be pruned very heavy at any one time; 
I do most of my pruning in the spring after the sap starts ; they seem 
to heal better then. I cut out all cross branches and thin out every 
part so as to let in the light to give the fruit the proper color. 

Now I want to say a few words about how to grow apples at a 
loss. If you will buy a piece of land close to a big town or city, pay 
about $150 an acre for it, then send way off for some fine large trees 
of some new-fangled process of grafting or budding, such as whole 
roots as on oak trees, of some fine variety, such as Yellow Bell flower, 
at 60 or 75 cents apiece, then set them out 40 feet apart each way in 
holes four feet square and two or three feet deep, putting the top soil 
in the bottom of the hole and the clay on top and then wait till they 
bear. B. R. Boucher, Cairo, Mo. 



DISCUSSION. 

A. Nelson — Why not plant enough Maiden Blush to load a car 
and get from $2 to 12.50 per barrel for them ? The Maiden Blnsh will 
make more money than the Ben Davis. Not enough attention is paid 
to the Maiden Blush, Grimes and other early apples. We do not plant 
enough of them to load a car. 

Mr. Reed of Wisconsin — I would like to emphasize the raising of 
such apples as the Maiden Blush, Grimes and Jonathan. I think your 
Ben Davis apples in Missouri will compare with our filled cheese. 
They will ruin the reputation of your State for fruit. We have a law 
in Wisconsin preventing the making of filled cheese. You ought to 



WINTER MEETING. 197 

have a law against growing Ben Davis apples. Maiden Blush will al- 
ways sell. If you grow Maiden Blush every grower should learn to be 
a shipper. He don't want to wait for some shipper to come along and 
take cream and leave the skim milk. 

Secretary Goodman — It is understood that this Society does not 
indorse everything that is published in the reports. Every man's 
views stand upon their own merits. 

C. 0. Bell — The Maiden Blush is an excellent apple, but I must 
take issue with Mr. Nelson on the score of profit. As a dealer, I like 
to buy it, but I can not pay as much for it as for Ben Davis, nor can 
we get as many apples from the tree as from the Ben Davis. The 
Maiden Blush stands in the front rank. It is desired on all the mar- 
kets, but I can't recommend it for making money. 

Mr. Murray — We horticulturists have wide differences of experience. 
One success or one failure by one individual don't prove anything. Buy- 
ers will not come along and pay fancy prices for summer apples. As a 
rule, in small lots they go to waste. I advise no man to grow summer ap- 
ples for profit unless he can handle his own fruit. Ben Davis is ridi- 
culed for its poor quality. I call your attention to the fact that Mis- 
souri Ben Davis is a very good apple. In countries where apples don't 
grow they eat it and pronounce it good. Missouri Ben Davis sold in 
Hamburg, Germany, on the 25th of October for $S per barrel; New- 
town Pippins sold in Liverpool for $6.01 per barrel. If you can grow 
Newtown Pippin for one cent more per barrel than you can Ben Da- 
vis, go ahead ; I can't. 

Music by pupils of High school. 



PLANS FOR GATHERING, SORTING, HANDLING AND 
PACKING PEACHES AND APPLES. 

Plans for gathering, sorting, handling and packing peaches and 
apples are so numerous and so dissimilar that to describe them all 
would take more time than would be profitable at this meeting, hence 
I will only endeavor to drop a few thoughts on one plan (the best one 
that I know of) in each operation, and if by this means I succeed in 
calling out a good discussion on the subject, I will have attained my 
object. 

On the handling of peaches and apples, the staple of all fruit, 
from the tree to the consumer, depends the success of the horti- 
culturist. 

It matters not how fine fruit may be raised, nor in how great 



198 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

abundance, if it is not properly handled from the tree to the consumer,, 
it loses money for the producer. , 

I cannot refrain from diverging from the subject one moment 
right here to say that the fruit-grower who expects to reduce the 
handling of his fruit to a minimum cost, which is necessary to success 
in these days of sharp competition, must consider the cost of gather- 
ing and handling when he plants his orchard. Any one who has ever 
gathered peaches knows that he can gather a solid block of proper 
size of one variety at one half the cost that he can a conglomerated 
mixture of six to ten varieties in the same block. 

Again, how exasperating and how expensive it is if we are gather- 
ing, say, Blberta peaches and finish up a block in the middle of the 
forenoon or the middle of the afternoon, and have to pull and move 
forty or fifty pickers and packers and all appliances for handling the 
fruit to another block of Elbertas in another part of the field one-half 
or perhaps a mile and a half distant. 

A block of peach trees should not consist of more than ten acres 
of land or 40 rods square, and should have a driveway on one ormoie 
sides, according to the position it occupies to the public highway or 
railway station. The driveways need not be more than 20 or 25 feet 
wide. If I were planting 1,000 acres of peach trees of one or many 
varieties, I would divide them into lO-acre blocks ; or if I were plant- 
ing only ten acres of one or more varieties, I would not plant more 
than four varieties in an orchard of only ten acres ; I would plant them 
in one block. If I wished to have two varieties I would plant one half 
the block to each variety. If four varieties would corner them in the 
center of the block, because in the center of a 10 acre block is where 
we want to do our packing. 

The laying ont of an apple orchard may be diJBFerent, as the gather- 
ing and packing of apples is different from that of peaches. The apple 
orchard may be planted in rows the entire length of the field or orchard 
plat, it matters not how long, if each row contains but one variety of 
apples. 

Handling a crop of peaches requires no small amount of fore- 
thought and preparation before the peaches are ripe, as any delay means 
loss when they are ripe. In view of this fact we should have our box 
material on hand early, and a goodly number of each kind of package 
that we expect to use during the season made up. 

I will not undertake to go into detail of the merits of the differ- 
ent kinds of packages in use, but will say that I prefer three kinds 
and but three kinds of packages for the general market ; the six 
basket carrier, the '"California" No. 20 box and the third bushel box. 



WINTER MEETING. 199 

Next if the trees are large we should prepare one good self-sup- 
porting ladder for every two men that we expect to employ in gather- 
ing. These ladders can be made cheaply by any carpenter of any 
strong, light material; pine or linn answers a good purpose. The 
material had best be ordered direct from the mill, that it may be cut 
the proper size, which should be one and one-half by three and one-half 
inches at lower end, and one and one-half by two inches at top, and 
ten to twelve feet long. Three pieces for standards or uprights are 
necessary for each ladder. The steps may be made of one by three- 
inch batting. Now construct the ladder so that the uprights will be 
three feet apart at the base and taper to two inches apart at the top, 
with a step every fifteen inches, let one-half the thickness of it into the 
upright and nail securely. Now place the small end of the third 
standard between the top of the standards of the ladder and bore a 
half-inch hole in all three and place a half-inch bolt in them and put a 
nut on bolt. The third leg or standard will close up so that it may be 
carried, or stand out at any angle and be self-supporting, so that the 
picker may go into the tree or may go up by the side of it. 

Next, let us prepare at least four good half-bushel picking baskets 
for every gatherer that we expect to use. I say good ones, for if they 
are not good they will last bat a short time. Taking them as they 
come from the factory, they should be gone over and thoroughly re- 
nailed to prevent them pulling apart when filled. Now, take paint pot 
and brush and number each basket, four No. ones, four No. twos, four 
No. threes and so on, four baskets bearing the same number for each 
picker. Bach basket should be padded with excelsior and lined with 
good burlap, or cotton drilling or denims. 

Now the gatherers are ready to go to the orchard, but we have 
made no provision for the packers. A packing-table is necessary and 
is easily made by cutting 2x4 scantling 3 feet long for legs and putting 
on them three 1x12, 16-foot boards, surfaced on one side, making a 
table 3x16 feet. There should be a 1x4, 16-foot strip nailed lengthwise 
on edge through the enter of the table to elevate the inner end of the 
box while being packed. Then there should be shade provided for the 
packers, for we are going to pack the peaches in the orchard where 
they grow. This is readily made by procuring tent or sail cloth 16x24 
feet, with holes well worked into each corner, middle of ends and 
sides, one stiff ridge-pole reaching the entire length of the sheet; 
three pike-poles 12 feet long to support the ridge-pole and three pike- 
poles 8 feet for each eave or side. Enough small rope may be put 
into the loop holes of the canvass to secure it in position. Now spread 
the canvass out and place the ridge-pole exactly in the center lengthwise 



200 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

and fasten it securely with tacks or staples. 'Now you may roll tbe 
canvass up on the ridge-pole and two men can carry it anywhere they 
wish, 

Next to be considered is a wagon to transfer tbe packages of 
peaches from the packing-table to ihe railway station. There are a 
number of fruit-wagons manufactured for this purpose, all of which 
have merit, but as good and as cheap one as I have ever used is to 
make a body of 2x8 inch planks, Hi feet long, for bottom and 1x6 
inches 16 feet long boards for sides, three boards for each side, mounted 
on a set of twenty-hundred Studebaker springs, set on a common road 
wagon. If the wagon is well coupled out it gives elasticity to the 
load, both from the spring of the body and the springs under it. It is 
of vital importance to get peaches to market without bruising them* 

Now we are ready to go to the orchard. If the size of the orchard 
will warrant the outlay, I like to go with at least 15 pickers and 10 
packers. Women make our best packers, as a rule. Set the packing- 
table and stretch the shade either in the middle of the block to be 
gathered, or if the block is too large to be gathered at one setting, 
place them so that the fruit can be brought to the table from 20 rods 
in every direction. While the table is being set and the shade stretched, 
let the foreman start his men to gathering by first giving each man a 
numbered basket and taking his name and number of his basket and 
require him to use no other number. When the first round of baskets 
are full, have each man to carry it to the packing table and take an 
empty one, ihe number of which corresponds with the one just filled. 
By the time he has gathered two or three baskets the first that he 
picked will have been packed, so that he can always have his own 
number. 

How to gather peaches from the tree is easily told. Simply take 
every peach that is ready to ship carefully from the tree by hand and 
place it in the basket. When the basket is -thus filled, carry it care- 
fully to the packing-table and set it carefully down. But when to pick 
them, under the varied conditions of weather, markets and distance to 
ship, is a more difficult point to explain. Yes, I will say that it cannot 
be explained, but must be demonstrated by object lessons. 

I will say farther that if I had as much as a car-load of peaches to 
put on the market I would pay a good picker and a good packer lib- 
eral wages rather than to get my information by experimenting or by 
all that pickers and packers could tell me. 

Like all other avocations, people must be trained to handle fruit 
correctly, or some one must suffer from lack of correct handling. 

The producer is usually the one who suffers. 



WINTER MEETING. 201 

I will also say that I never knew a man or woman to become an 
expert in gathering or packing peaches or apples in one day, or in one 
season. 

But to return to the packing table. Here again experience is nec- 
essary for the best results. At least one person in charge should 
know the proper size, shape and quality of fruit that should go into 
each kind of package. Also the condition of it as regards ripeness 
for a long or short shipment. AH the cull fruit should go into the cull 
wagon. There are fruit-growers who lose more morty by shipping 
cull fruit marked up as "No. 1" or "Fancy," than by tbe "middle man." 

The table described above will accommodate ten packers. 

If the fruit is reasonably good and the packers have had some ex- 
perience, that number will put up a car-load of from 900 to 1,10U cases 
per day. As intimated above, I prefer women for packers, young 
women especially take a pride in making nice fruit look pretty in a 
nice clean package. However, I have had some men that were adepts 
in packing peaches. We find it profitable to keep an expert packer 
constantly in charge at the packing-table with entire jurisdiction of 
the packers. An elderly lady is usually best for this position. She 
should be quick, alert, industrious, kind, but uncompromising. 

Boys and girls and older women soon learn to jespect the author- 
ity of such a lady. 

Bach packer should be encouraged to put a private mark on every 
package that they put up. 

If the system herewith outlined, or a better one is carried out, 
the peach-grower of this part of the State at least will have not only 
a pleasant business but a remunerative one, and the time is not far 
distant when every city and town in the United States that has rail- 
road communication may feast on peaches grown on the Ozarks. 

As intimated above, I have merely mentioned some of the differ- 
ent processes to be gone through with for the purpose of bringing out 
discussion on the handling of peaches, and yet the length of this 
paper admonishes me to stop here without touching on apples. 

If our worthy Secretary will excuse the omission, and it is so re- 
quested, I will promise to prepare a paper on the handling of apples 
for the next meeting of our Horticultural Society. 

H. E. MosELEY, Olden, Mo. 



'20'2 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



Wednesday, 2 p. m. 

The following committees were appointed: 

Committee on Fraite — J. W. Stanton, Illinois; A. Bronson, Iowa ; 
W. G. Gano, Missouri. 

Committee on Flowers — Judge Miller, Mrs. Nelson, Mrs. Chandler. 

Committee on Finance — J.T. Snodgrass, N.F.Murray, D. A.Rob- 
nett. 

Committee on Obituary — A. Nelson, F. H. Speakman, H. Schnell. 

Committee on Final resolutions — J. G. Kinder, K. J. Bagby, A. H. 
Gilkeson. 

Mr. Nelson — Every speaker should give his locality. I am from 
the summit of the Ozarks. I operate up and down the Frisco road for 
many miles. High quality early fruits pay. We sell other apples in 
Memphis by the barrel for 50 or 75 cents more than we get for Ben 
Davis. I speak as a grower, a buyer and a shipper. The Maiden 
Blush is among the surest bearers in our country. It has not failed in 
35 years. 

Indianapolis, Ixd. , December 18, 1897. 
To Secretary Horticultural Society, Moberly, Mo. : 

The Indiana Horticultural Society responds to your greeting. Accept thanks and best 
wishes. J. Troop, Secretary. 



THE FUTURE OF HORTICULTURE IN MISSOURI. 

In considering the future of horticulture in our State, it is but 
natural to include the future of Missouri State Horticultural Society. 
So closely has this Society been identifi^^d with the development of 
horticultural interest in the past that we may be assured that it will 
be so in the future, and as this interest expands and grows, so should 
the work of this Society expand into newer and broader fields of use- 
fulness to the true interests of those engaged in horticultural pursuits. 

The business of fruit-growing is prolific in bright hopes and bitter 
disappointments. We see a splendid result attained with but ordinary 
skill and attention when straightway in our minds we conclude by 
multiplying the acreage, and multiply this by a series of like successful 
years, we soon arrive at a comfortable bank account and a financial 
state of comfort and affluence for the balance of a lifetime. But alas, 
it somehow will not work out in practice. 

The susceptibility of fruit to unfavorable climatic changes and 
conditions; the varibility of success, with varieties when grown on 
different soils; its perishable nature liaiiting the scope of profitable 



WINTER MEETING. 203 

marketing: its insect enemies and diseases ; the fierce compf^tition of 
rival districts; the overstocking of markets through lack of reliable 
and prompt information that would prevent; the excessive cost of 
rapid transportation ; the unreliability of middle men if we wish to 
use so mild a term in describing the rake-off of the commission man ; all 
these go to make np the elements of uncertainty that is incidental to 
this business to a greater degree perhaps than is the case with growth 
of any other important product of the soil. 

I will not assume a superior wisdom in saying that there is a scien- 
tific and sure way of securing such varieties as we desire. It is well 
known that varieties of the same species of fruits can be crossed by 
hybridization just as certainly as the stock-breeder can produce the 
desired type by judicious crossing of selected types of our domestic 
animals. That by top-grafting on bearing trees these new varieties can 
be brought into bearing and tbeir merits ascertained in three or four 
years. 

The principle reason, no scientific persistent and extensive effort 
is being made to produce superior varieties, is because it offers very 
slight recompense to the originator, personally ; this is a work that 
properly belongs to the government^ or State Experiment Station. 
Where one seedling is brought into bearing in the old way, there should 
be one hundred thousand carefully crossed seedlings brought into 
bearing, and the most promising sent to different sections of the 
country and tested. Under such a system does anyone doubt that in 
a decade we could produce a thousand varieties equal to any we now 
have, or that it would be reasonable to doubt that ten, twenty or fifty 
of these scientifically produced varieties would be very much superior 
for our purpose to any we now have ? 

In this connection there is another matter that shoufd also be 
tested by the State and government on experimental farms, and that 
is the influence of varieties on each other when united. I believe it is 
generally admitted that there is an influence sometimes detrimental, 
sometimes beneficial, which is exerted by the stock or root upon the 
graft or variety placed upon it. Careful observation for the past 
twenty-five years only the more firmly convinces me that in this field 
of research there fcre greater beneficial possibilities to the horticulturist 
than in any other one department. 

On the grounds of the Olden Fruit Co., the influence of the 
Mahaleb root on the Early Richmond and English Morrello cherry has 
been so strong it killed the trees, while those grafted on the common 
Morrello stock proved hardy and productive. At Mr. S. W. Gilbert's 
home in Thayer, in Oregon county, stand two magnificent specimens 



204 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

of the Mazzard cherry; it would be impossible to find two more vigor- 
ous or symetrical trees than these. Xow the Mazzard is a true moun- 
tain variety; its native home is in the forests of the Alleghaoy moun- 
tains; it formerly was largely used as a stock, but of late years has 
been superseded by the Mahaleb, because the, latter is more easily ob- 
tained and is more successful to bud on than any other of the cherry 
family; but the Mahaleb has never been a satisfactory stock in many 
sections of the country. I predict that when orchardists adopt the 
Mazzard as a stock in the Ozark country, that they will have found the 
one best suited for them. 

There is a strange fatality in that section affecting the apple, though 
you can find plenty of old healthy trees that have existed since the 
earliest settlement of the country, and are yet as sound and hardy a^ 
oaks. Many attribute this fatality in the apple to the effects of the 
woolly aphis, but if the truth is ever known I predict it will be found 
in the woolly hap-hazzard way trees are propogated. But we cannot 
pursue this subject. If it were desired, 10,000 instances could be sited 
to prove that this feature has been neglected to the detriment of hor- 
ticultural interests in this and every other State. 

I wish to make some remarks in regard to our insect pests and the 
way we should proceed to avoid their depredations. To give some 
idea of the extent that insects now cost the fruitgrower will state 
without fear of successful contradiction that not to include the apples 
that fell to the ground before picking time, not to include the fruit 
culled on this account when packed for shipment, but only that ac- 
tually to the St. Louis market the present season; that the injury by 
insects cut the price more per barrel than was originally paid the 
grower for the fruit. Had they been absolutely sound the dealer could 
have better paid double than the price he did pay. In our market 
there were thousands ; yes, hundreds of thousands of barrels of apples 
handled that could not possibly have netted the grower more than 10 
cents per bushel after fixed charges were paid. Apples at $1 per bar- 
rel or less on the market is simply doing business for your health. 

1 do not wish to be construed as attempting to ridicule the mau 
that sprays to rid his orchard of insect pests, because if that is the 
best he can do, then he ought to spray. But is it the best? I doubt 
it. It somehow strikes me, that to see a man chase around over his 
orchard with an overgrown squirt-gun in a futile attempt to destroy a 
horde of insects, that his or someone's carelessness and neglect had 
fostered into life is much on par with the man who carefully locks his 
stable-door after the horse is stolen. Well, what would yon do ? you 
ask. 1 answer that it appears to me that there is only one truly sensible 



WINTER MEETING. 205 

thing to do in the premises and that is to see that all infected fallen 
fruit is destroyed before insects shall have time to enter the ground 
and form a new crop to prey on the fruit another year. 

A man now has no moral right to turn loose a swarm of fruit- 
destroying insects into the orchard of his neighbor, and should have no 
legal right to do it. If he will not destroy his insect-infected fallen fruit, 
then there should be a means provided whereby a proper officer of the 
law should see that is is done and the cost assessed against the land 
and the same collected as any other tax. 

Those in the newer settled sections of the State cannot realize how 
very destructive insects can become, but they stand a splendid show to 
learn. Those in the older sections have found it out with a vengeance. 
I have seen wagon-loads of apples brought into the St. Louis market 
that did not contain one bushel of sound fruit. 

Another very serious problem that has to be solved is that of 
transportation. It has become so in many localities at certain seasons 
that a shipment of fruit has bat little more likelihood of bringing a 
just return than a ticket in a lottery or raffle. The fixed charges of 
transportation, commission on sales, expense or crating, picking and 
packing of fruit have first to be met, then if there is anything left, and 
quite frequently there isn't, the grower comes in for his share, which, 
by the way, is never so heavy that it costs him anything to get it trans- 
ported home from the express office. For instance, the express charges 
from West Plains to Kansas City are $L per hundred, $20 per ton, an 
earning capacity of $400 in hauling a car-load 300 miles, honestly worth 
not over $40. The fixed charges per crate approximately are 34 cents 
express, crate and picking 55 cents ; if they sell for $1 per case (and 
thousands have sold for less), then the commission is 10 cents, a total 
of 99 cents, and the grower receives the munificent remuneration of 1 
cent for 24 quarts of berries. When they sell for less than charges he 
receives an invitation to remit balance. 

This is another hard job laying before the Missouri State Horti- 
cultural Society, which is to secure just and equitable rates of trans- 
portation 10 enable the fruit-growers of our State to compete in terri- 
tory that legitimately belongs to us. Can we do so now? Go into 
Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska and the Dakotas, and you will find that 
the shippers of Southern Illinois, with the splendid equipment and fa- 
cilities of the Illinois Central railroad, and the equally splendid dis- 
tributing facilities of Chicago, and these fruit-growers can place fruit 
into many portions of these states at a profit, when we cannot reach 
them only at a loss. Do you know what you will meet when you go to 
a Missouri road for express freight rates similar to that accorded ship- 



206 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

pers over the Illinois Central railroad via their fruit train? Well, you 
will be told that their contracts with the express company forbid them 
from carrying less then car lots at car rates. You go to the express 
company and they will tell you that they are compelled by their con- 
tract to pay 40, 50 or 60 per cent, as the case may be, of present rate 
to the railroad company for providing facilities and transportation ; 
therefore, cannot afford to reduce rates, 

I ask your patience one moment more. I wish to point to the work 
of one man and his associates. I allude to that magnificent triumph 
of human effort and intelligence — the Olden fruit farm. What is 
that improvement and the immense development of the fruit interest 
of that section directly resulting from it worth to the Springfield & 
Memphis railroad? I answer, millions on millions of dollars. That 
company could well afford to transport free of charge to either end of 
its line every pound of fruit produced on that farm for the next 25 
years and then would not have repaid the favor that has been conferred 
upon them. 

ifow, does it cost our honorable President anything to ship his 
fruit"? Oh, no ; not so much; take a car of peaches to Boston, the 
expenses are only about $500. What will it cost Mr. Old Timer back 
ten miles in the "breash" to ship a car of steers fattened on sumach 
berries and hazel brush to the same point in practically the same time? 
Answer: About one- fourth as much. Yet the cattle will sell for as 
much or more per car-load, will cost as much or more for care and at- 
tention en route. One represents the probable gross product of a 
whole township of wild land ; the other represents the annual product 
of two or three acres of similar land, only the owner has waved his 
magic wand and caused the black-jack and hickory to disappear and 
the Elberta and Ben Davis to grow instead. Yet there is not a point 
on that line, or off it, where the stock grower cannot reach for about 
one-fourth the price per hundred, per ton or per car, than is accorded 
this benefactor of that line and South Missouri. 

This is the encouragemeni fruit men receive at the hands of trans- 
portation companies, though engaged in a pursuit that produces more 
tonnage per acre than is the case with any important product of the 
soil. Do you want to know why stockmen receive such low rates 
comparatively? I will tell you. Cattle have legs and can be driven 
to rival lines or even to market, therefore they are carried to market 
for about what the service is worth. What we want is to produce 
some varieties of peaches, apples and strawberries with legs; that would 
soon solve the transportation question. 



WINTER MEETING. 207 

I do not wish to draw unfair comparisons, and especially do not 
wish to reflect upon the Springdeld & Memphis railroad, because 
that road has shown more appreciation of the fruit interest, and has 
done more to advertise Missouri as a fruit State than any railroad 
within our borders, and in showing that even with that line there is 
vast room for improvement, then it goes without saying that those 
dependent on other lines for trasportation are in a pretty bad fix. 

With our central location and nearness to what will soon become 
the center of the densest population on the continent, with our mag- 
nificient soil and climate, the future of horticulture in Missouri should 
be filled with bright promise indeed, but not bo if we cannot remove 
many of these unnecessary impediments and uncertainties that now 
bar our progress. J. G. Kinder. 



REPORTS OF COUNTY SOCIETIES. 



COLE COUNTY. 

OflBcera — J. B. Brooks, President, Jefferson City; T. M. Barker, 
Vice-President, Centertown ; A. J. Davis, Secretary, Jefferson City : 
F. M. Brown, Treasurer, Jefferson City. 

Fruit trees generally stood the drought well, and have gone into 
winter quarters in good condition. About 90 per cent of the straw- 
berry and blackcap raspberries died out during the months of Sep- 
tember and October. Red raspberries and blackberries withstood the 
drouth well, and were not seriously damaged. The following varieties 
of apples gave best results with us the past season : Rawls' Janett, 
Ben Davis, Wine Sap, Gilpin, Missouri Pippin, Jonathan, York Im- 
perial, Huntsman and Grimes' Golden. Our peach crop was a fine 
one, Elberta, Henrietta and Piquetts, late, heading list for profit. 
Smock, Old Mixon, free, and Crawfords, late, were well loaded with 
tine fruit. Crosby bore an abundant crop, but is too small for a profit- 
able commercial peach. Gold Dust, light crop, too small. Champion, 
large, fine peach, but not over 10 per cent of full crop. 

There was a good crop of cherries in our section the past season. 

Quite a large quantity were shipped from Jefferson City. Early Eich- 

mond is the one most generally known in our locality. Plums bore a 

good crop of the natives. Wild Goose is the only profitable sort. 

Damsons, common blue, and Shropshire gave good results. Japans and 

Abundance were the only ones that did not rot badly. Pears were 

killed in the bloom, causing almost a complete failure of this fine fruit. 

Grapes are but little grown in our county, but what few vines there 

are grown yielded an abundant crop the past season. Our fruit men 

have done fairly well the past season, and there will probably be quite 

a large increase to the acreage of young orchards in our county next 

spring. 

A. J. Davis, Secretary. 



REPORTS OF COUNTY SOCIETIES. 209 



BARRY COUNTY. 

As Secretary of Barry County Horticultural Society, I offer the 
following as a report of what has been done in 1897 : 

We see from the reading of county and society reports many of 
them begin with introduction and close with introduction. It is hard 
to tell if they have an organization or not, or whether they grow fruit, 
corn, hay, cattle or hogs, or real estate agents or town boomers, etc. 

I believe we should make these reports, giving facts and figures of 
what we have had, what we have and what we aim to do in the horti- 
cultural work. 

Barry county has been organized years. At present we have 28 
members. President, H. C. Fitch, of Seligman ; Secretary, G. G. 
James, of Exeter. The county society is composed of six local socie- 
ties, one each, as follows: Monett, Purdy, Butterfield, Exeter, Wash- 
burn and Seligman. 

The county society meets once each month, on the last Saturday. 
We held 11 meetings in 1897. We will have no meeting in December, 
as the iast Saturday is Christmas day. We have a regular program 
each meeting. Papers are read on different subjects, and published 
in the county papers. We discuss all these subjects. We have worked 
hard for organization, co-operation, transportation and distribation. 
We are proud to say we have been successful ; have almost perfected 
the organization of the Southwest Cooperative Union, embracing the 
territory of Southwest Missouri and Northwest Arkansas. Next 
Tuesday, December 7, we hold a meeting at Monett to elect officers 
and executive committee. All the proceedings of these meetings have 
been published in the Southwest, at Springfield. 

REPORTS AND NO REPORTS FROM THE LOCAL SOCIETIES. 

Monett — No report. OldoflScers: President, R. D. Creel; Sec- 
retary, Geo. Raupp ; Shipped in 1897, 44 car-loads strawberries. 

Purdy — President, ; Secretary, B. Kirby. Shipped in 1897, 

4,800 crates strawberries ; 3 cars apples. 

Butterfield — President, ; Secretary, Geo. D. Bethune. Ship- 
ped in 1897, 461 carates strawberries; 171 barrels apples. 

Exeter — President, W. W. Witt; Secretary, M. L. Freeze; 36 mem- 
bers; meets first and second Saturday in each month. Shipped in 
1897, 1,900 crates stiawberries ; 700 crates raspberries ; 100 crates 
H— 14 



210 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

blackberries ; 50 boxes peaches ; 34 boxes plums ; 71 car-loads apples. 
Have for 1898, 100 acres in strawberries; 60 acres in raspberries; 10 
a,cres in blackberries. 

Washburn — President, H. J. Wood; Secretary, J. B. Berryhill. 

Shipped in 1897, 975 crates strawberries. 

Seligman — President, H. 0. Fitch ; Secretary, H. M. Foster. 

Shipped in 1897, 294 crates strawberries, 1,879 crates raspberries, 
80 crates blackberries, 59 crates cherries, 2,083 boxes peaches, 28 cars 
of apples. Acres for 1898, 13 of strawberries, 152 of rapberries, 7 of 
blackerries. 

Barry county shipped in 1897, 58 car-loads of strawberries, 2,597 
crates of raspberries, 180 crates of blackberries, 34 crates of plums, 
2,133 boxes of peaches, 99 car-loads of apples. 

Barry county has for 1898, from the best information I can get, 
about 500 acres strawberries (200 crates to acre, 100,000 crates, or 166 
car-loads), about 400 acres raspberries (100 crates to acre, 40,000 crates, 
or 66 car-loads.) 

The drough has been severe and will cut short our crop one-third 
to one half. 



34,800 crates of strawberries, netted about 90c 
2,579 crates of raspberries, netted about 40c — 

2,133 boxes of peaches, netted about 35c 

80 cars of apples, 15,000 barrels, $1.20 

19 cars apples, 3,800 barrels, culls, 25c 

Total value to the grower 1897 



$31,320 

1,030 

SCO 

18,000 

550 



51,700 



We estimate for Barry county for 1898 



500 acres strawberries, half crop, 50,000 crates 90c 

400 acres raspberries, half crop, 75 crates to acre, 30,000, 50c 
Total 



$45,000 
24,000 



69,000 



Prospect for the future is better. We improve and grow under 
organization the apple, peach, pear, plum, etc. Trees have developed 
very poor. A great many trees died from the drouth, but with fruits 
of every kind we never have made a total failure of all. 

G. G. James, Secretary. 



Exeter, Mo., December, 5, 1897. 
Mr. L. A. Goodman, Sec'y Mo. State Horticultural Society: 

Dear Sir— Enclosed is a report from Barry county and the locals; two locals made re- 
ports, two partial and two none at all. 

You see I have had to do work somewhat at guess. Washburn shipped at least 6 cars 
of raspberries and 40 cars of apples. Purdy^ Is generally the largest In apples but drouth 
cut her oflf . I also send you report of our November meeting; the paper read on birds and 



REPORTS OF COUNTY SOCIETIES. 211 

Insects Is not In print ; will be Thursday and will send It to you If It deserves a place In 
your report. I have done lots of work and spent money In the last 12 years to keep this 
work going; we have a lew men at each point that work all the time for It, attend all the 
meetings, etc. I would like for every county to make an estimate of what Is done and have 
It published so as to compare. We do not know If we are doing well or not. I am now (lo 
years old, raised in the early days of Missouri. I know I am not competent to do this work 
but do It because others will not. Itespectfully, 

G. G. Ja.mes. 



LAWRENCE COUNTY. 

Oor Society is in good working order, and many others will join. 

We had a horticultural exhibit of three days, Oct. 7, Sand 9, where 
many plates of fine apples, pears, peaches etc., were shown. Our mer- 
chants offered some excellent premiums for the best, and all went off 
nicely. B. Logan, Secretary. 



COOPER COUNTY. 

The year 1897, had some peculiar climatic changes, which to a great 
extent controlled the favorable and unfavorable results in horticultural 
pursuits. The fair prospects of the apple and late peach crops was 
greatly damaged by the great droughts which prevailed here as well as 
elsewhere. The increase in price which was very encouraging, was 
counteracted by the decrease in size and lack of color in the fruit, 
which caused many estimates early in the season to fall short of ex- 
pectation when the crops were packed, yet, taking all in all, the farm- 
ers are generally well pleased over the result, and many new commer- 
cial orchards will be planted the coming season. The strawberry crop 
was an exceptional one, very fine, but prices ruled low except for 
strictly fancy. Varieties doing best with writer was Bubach No. f), 
Hoverland, Greenville and Parker Earle, the last named stands pre- 
eminent above all others for productiveness. Prospects for 1898 very 
poor, plants damaged and many beds from the effects of dought are dead . 
Raspberries and blcakberries produced a fibe crop ; prices ruled low. 
Grapes and plums a good crop, but no sales for the fruit. Abundance 
and Burbank are the plums for people to plant. Fancy varieties of 
peaches were in demand at fair prices. Seedling and inferior budded 
varieties not wanted at any price. The Elberta, queen of all the early 
varieties, reigns supreme above all others for size, color and produc- 
tiveness. Champion, a fine peach of its class. Heath cling and Salway 
the best late varieties. The summing up of all the small fruit crops 
and perishable stone fruits, seems to be to plant and grow only the 
beat, if a man expects to sell at a profit. A suggestion to my brother 
nurserymen : why are we growing so many varieties of apples when 



212 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

only a few are profitable to the fruit-grower? Let us revise the list. 
The following I consider ample and sufficient for all practical use : 
Summer — Red June, Early Harvest, L. Transparent, Bernoni, Chenango 
Strawberry. Fall — Maiden's Blush, Rarabo, G. G. Pippin, Domine. 
Winter — Ben Davis, Jonathan, Gano, Missouri Pippio, York Imper- 
ial, Huntsman, Janet, Wine Sap, Ark. Black, Lansingburg. Lady and 
Ladies Sweet. H. W. Jenkins. 



CRAWFORD COUNTY. 

While we have some very enthusiastic members, most of them take 
hold of the matter very reluctantly, but when you talk to them about 
the good that could be accomplished they readily agree to it, but when 
you have a meeting they fail to come out. I sprung the question 
last summer and by hard exertions succeeded in effecting an organiza- 
tion, but it seems that every thing depends on me to keep the thing 
going, and to a certain extent I have relaxed my energies in that direc- 
tion, to see if some of the rest would not come to the front and keep 
the ball rolling. I can plainly see that fruit raising is one of the most 
profitable industries that we South-central Missourians can engage in, 
our soil and clim.ate being especially adapted to fruit culture; and we 
have a great many fine apple orchards that have fully demonstraced 
the value thereof, and the acreage of apple trees being planted is in- 
creasing each year, and for all not over JO per cent of the apple trees 
that have been planted in Crawford county have yei come into bfearing. 
The farmers of Crawford county realized more actual cash from their 
apple crop this year than any other crop of the year, and when they 
take hold of the small fruits, as they should, they will find that they 
will supply a long felt need of something to bring in money at a time 
when they most need it and have nothing else to bring it in. 

Below are the names of the officers of the Meramec Horticultural 
Association: E. R. Bowen, President; Peter Lovengood, Vice-Presi- 
dent ; Joseph Marsh, Secretary ; K. D. Nerval, Assistant Secretary^ 
and Charles Lay, Treasurer, S-teelville. 

E. R. Bowen, Steeiville, Mo. 



CONWAY. 

The Conway Horticultural Society has been a little negligent about 
meeting lately, especially since Mr. Getty moved away. We met last 
week and elected officers as follows: President, N. C. Newport ; Vice- 
President, J. A. Day; Secretary, R. O. Hardy: Treasurer, R. C. 
Newport. R. O. Hardy. 



REPORTS OF COUNTY SOCIETIES. 213 



HENRY COUNTY. 

The Henry County Horticultural Society met in court-house last 
Saturday, with a fairly good attendance — more so than usual. The 
minutes of last meeting were read by Secretary Pretzinger. Treasurer 
Burris made report of money in his hands— over $28. Pretty good 
showing. Some unfinished businegs was taken up and disposed of 
President Bonham, delegate to State meeting, gave a great deal of 
valuable information concerning fruit-growing, and also on agriculture. 
Mr. Stevenson, a young fruit-grower of Deepwater, gave some valuable 
points on grape culture and apple growing. He is an up-to-date hor- 
ticulturist. Rev. Armstrong was present, but was called away. How- 
ever, he said he was in favor of everything that was for the good of 
the meeting and the Henry county horticultural advancement. 

The annual State report was distributed. A few kept — to be given 
away at our next meeting. J. M. Pretzinger was appointed delegate to 
State meeting, at Moberly, December 7, 8 and 9. From now on a general 
discussion of how to have a good meeting and attendance and how. 
Henry county's vast resources in fruit-growing could be advanced. 
Any one can join this society free for the present, and receive a report 
as long as we have them. 

Adjourned to meet in court-room, Saturday, December 18th, at 1 
p. m., prompt. 
J. M. Pretzinger, S.ec'y. M. L. Bonham, Pres., Clinton, Mo. 



GREENE COUNTY. 

The Greene County Horticultural Society has had a prosperous 
year. New members have been added and the enthusiasm for fruit- 
growing was never so strong. Daring the summer months our Society 
meets at the residences of members in the country and in winter we 
meet with city members or in a hall. A bountiful dinner is always fur- 
nished. We look forward to the time when the Greene County Hor- 
ticultural Society will have a hall of its own and a library and periodi- 
cals. We have $110 in our treasury. 

G. A. Atwood, Secretary. 



214 STATE HOETICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

North Hadlet, Mass., December l, 1897. 
Mr. L. A Goodman, Secretary, Westport, Mo. : 

DEAK Sir— This letter may be somewhat of a surprise to you, and you may have tor- 
gotten there ever was such a person, but such was and Is the case. I have often thought 
of the many friends I made among the fruit men of Missouri and of the many pleasant 
times I had with them and how I would like to drop In on them at their annual meetings. 
Hope things are going on well at Columbia, and that Prof. Whltten Is the right man In the 
right place, and If so, that he will stay and do some good work for the fruit-growers of 
Missouri. I was very much Interested In his bulletin on spraying peach trees with white- 
wash, and shall try It this winter. 

I see that Missouri Is In luck this year as far as apples are concerned, having had a 
good crop, while we at the coast have had a very small crop. I was In FaneuU Hall Mar- 
ket, Boston, a week ago Saturday, and most of the western fruit had been disposed of; It 
was not keeping at all well, owing to warm fall. Apples that are keeping well are good 
property In Boston markets. The firm I send all my apples to (and have sent to the same 
Arm from the time I began growing apples) are holding ray No. 1 Baldwins at $5 per bbl. ; 
No. 2 at $2.50. Last year I had my No. l apples put in cold storage, and they sold from $2 
to $2.25 per bbl. , and the year before they sold from $3.50 to $5 per bbl. Had a good crop of 
peaches this last year, but the prices were very low for these parts. I figured up last night 
what my peaches netted me per half bushel basket, good and bad, and it was just a little 
over 81}^ cents per basket. In 1883 I had aboutl.SOO baskets and they netted me, good and 
poor, (No. 1 and No. 2) , over $1.87 for half bushel basket. In 1895 I had a good crop and that 
season the run was about $1.10 per half bushel basket. 

The season of 1896 was the wort season I ever saw for the fruit business. All kinds of 
fruits except peaches were simply loaded. We had too much of a good thing, and I for one 
hope It will be a long time before we have to handle fruit for so little money 

How has Missouri found the Crosby peach? I set out 100 before i went to Missouri, and 
have had seven crops from them, and don't want any more. I was on the point of writing 
you when the Crosby was being boomed In Missouri that It would not prove a profitable 
peach for market— too small, poor color and shipper— but concluded I had troubled those 
who had the trees to sell as much as one man ought, so thought I would let them alone. 
Hale, J. H., & Hinds, the two who pushed it here and my humble self had some interesting 
reading In the papers over the Ci'osby, and think I stopped thousands of them being set 
about here. . 

What has been the outcome of the large apple orchards that were planted about the 
time I was In Missouri? Have many of them proved a profitable investment? I had my 
doubts about it at the time, for most were planting more than they could take care of, and 
do it as It should be; 100 trees may prove a very profitable Investment when 1,000 might re- 
sult in loss. 

How has D. A. Robnett of Columbia succeded with his apple orchard? I would like to 
have you give me what has been the Increase in the acreage of large and small fruits dur- 
ing the past 15 years In Missouri, and what proportion has been a paying Investment. I 
want to get together the facts from the different fruit sections and write a paper on the 
subject. I want to put a stop to the planting of trees by persons who will not care for 
them or the fruit after the trees that live through the neglect they receive begin to bear 
and flood the market with worthless trash that never pays the cost of handling and pre- 
vents good fruit selling for what it would If it was not for the poor stock thrown on the 
markets. The time Is past when the average farmer can or will make money growing 
fruits; at least it Is so in this part of the country. 

Winter has Just set in; the ground is frozen about two Inches deep, and we have 
about an Inch of snow. The prospects for fruit for another season are good with me to 
date. Hope peaches will go through all right; my trees are in good condition and will give 
a fine crop if not Injured during the winter. 

Remember me to any of my old friends. Very truly yours, 

JOhn W. Clark. 



WINTER MEETING. 215 



REPORT OF SECRETARY. 

When I began to prepare the program for this meeting and real- 
ized that I was to write down 40th annual meeting, it occurred to me 
that I had been in Missouri for some time, and found that it had been 
long enough to call me an old settler, 30 years old. Ten years after 
the organization of the Society I came to Missouri and settled in West- 
port. For 40 years has the Society been working and working, wait- 
ing and waiting, testing and trying, hoping and trusting, fearing and 
dreading, but still working and working all along these 40 years. Onlj^ 
two or tree men are living who helped to organize and put in motion 
the work we are now doing, and yet the work they then started is still 
growing and developing and increasing until they would no more know 
the fruit interests of the State nor their magnitude. Since the Society 
put on new life in 1882, for 15 years the development has been a very 
gradual and uniform one, and one that has made the State known all 
over the country as the "Fruit State of the West." From a few thou- 
sand of barrels of apples the production has grown and grown until 
now we see that Missouri stands first this year in the quantity, quality 
and value of her apple crop. It has simply been a wonder to all east- 
ern, western, northern, southern and foreign buyers the number of 
barrels and the quality and value of this year's apple crop. Two and 
one-half millions of barrels from Xorth Missouri, three and one-half 
millions of barrels from Central Missouri, three millions of barrels 
from South Missouri gives a fair illustration of the wonderful value of 
the fruit interests of Missouri in only one particular. No state in all 
this Union can dispute the position of Missouri as the head of the list 
this year in apple growing. And this is only one of our fruits, and its 
value to our State. Next comes the peach crop. Never before has 
this State been so peculiarly placed in regard to her control of the 
peach market. The peaches of the State were the wonder and aston- 
ishment of ourselves. Every crack and cranny of the State where 
peaches were growing the trees were loaded, loaded down, and the 
quality not surpassed anywhere. Peaches went to Boston, Philadel- 
phia, Baltimore, New York, Buffalo, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Detroit, 
Chicago, St. Louis, St. Paul, Omaha, Denver, Pueblo, Galveston, New 
Orleans, Memphis, Mobile, Birmingham, Louisville and hundreds of 
other places, and that is not all, they were pronounced the finest 
peaches in color, quality and size that many had ever seen. South 
Missouri produced two millions bushels, Central Missouri one million 



216 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

bushels and North Missouri one-half million bushels of peaches. In 
peaches IMissouri stands second this year, California alone leading. 

These are only two of our fruits. Pears, cherries, plums, straw- 
berries, raspberries, blackberries, grapes. Who shall number the 
bushels, or crates, or boxes of all these fraits that have been put on 
the market, to say nothing of the quantity used at home? Sarcoxie 
stands far in the lead in strawberry production, nearly 300 car-loads of 
berries being sent out last summer. The apple crop was worth 
$12,000,000, the peach crop $3,500,000, pears, cherries, plums and 
grapes $1,500,000, and the berries $2,500,000 more, making the value of 
our fruit crop worth $20,000,000. 

If any gold mines or silver mines, or lead or zinc mines, or coal 
mines should have such a yearly return, the world would go crazy 
over the speculation. And yet right here, quietly and surely, the re- 
turns come to us and nothing more is said. I could give you hundreds 
of instances where the fruit crop paid more than the farm was worth — 
sometimes $60, $80, $100, $150 or even $200 per acre. 

You should not be ignorant of the troubles, and discouragements, 
and trials, and work, and worry that it takes to succeed, for they have 
often been brought before you in a very plain and forcible manner; 
but I would have yon know that pluck, perseverence, energy, push, 
intelligence and business management will bring success, if we faint 
not. You need not fear of having a business that will develop the 
body and not the head. There is enough to learn in any of the de- 
partments of horticulture to keep you busy all your life. The study 
of botany, of entomology, of chemistry, of geology, ornithology, flori- 
culture, landscape gardening, nursery, forestry, pomology, pathology, 
will give you all you can do in one life. 

OUR SOCIETY AND ITS REPORTS. 

Last week I attended the meeting of the Arkansas Horticultural 
Society in Bentonville, Ark. Your Secretary was greeted most cor- 
dially and hospitably, because they knew our Society, if they did not 
know me. I found there the work we had been doing, and the reports 
we had been printing year after year for 15 years had made the 
reputation of this society, and Missouri Society was a household 
word among them and a model they wished to patern after. Again I 
visited the Kansas society and there the knowledge of our Society had 
preceded me, and they were striving to follow in its footsteps. Last 
September I attended the meeting of American Pomological Society 
at Columbus, O., and was happy indeed to find that there the delegates 
from 23 states and Canada all knew all about the Missouri State So- 



WINTER MEETING. 217 

ciety and its grand work in developing the fruit interests of this State, 
and what is better, seemed to know of the wonderful possibilities of 
Missouri for fruits. 

Our report has been well received and is called for continually 
from every part of the land. As some have said, "the reports of the 
Missouri Society for the last ten years is the best horticultural library 
that we can get." 

I am happy, dear friends, that I have had a hand with you in thus 
bringing forward our interests aud letting them be known to the world 
through our reports. Letters come by the score, not only for thei^e 
reports, but for answers to questions covering all phases of fruit grow- 
ing, insects, birds and fungii. Our experiment stations have been call- 
ing for files of them, and many of the city libraries have asked the 
same. I have been able to supply thus far these requests for the re- 
ports for 15 years. 

I have found it necessary to have some assistance in this work and 
have used the best that I could secure and the work has often kept 
both of us busy for many a day. 

The transportation question is the great question to solve if this 
business is to develop to the extent it now promises. The putting of 
this fruit where it is called for is the solution of this question of "glut- 
ting the market." "Proper distribution," and we will furnish the fruit 
for the nations. Much is being learned by the railroads and refrigerator 
companies each year in the best plan of handling, and carrying, and 
holding and delivering ice. Brine and ventilated cars are having a fair 
test and from all these we are sure to have this troublesome question 
solved. 

THE OMAHA EXPOSITION. 

We have made a start in this line of work and our Vice-President 
has visited the Exposition for the purpose of organizing for that display. 
It seems that our State has made no provision for the showing of our 
products, and it is very doubtful if this Society can do more than to 
make a fruit show for a week or so in the fall, sometime in October. 

A few members of this Society have taken the burden of all the 
exhibits we have ever made, aud spent their time without stint for the 
benefit of the State and its fruit interests, and anything more than a 
week's exhibit would be too much to ask without money and without 
price. 

The Society work it that of helper and leader and director of the 
fruit interests and other kindred interests and the development of the 
wonderful advantage that nature has given to our State. We can 
easily count by the thousands the successful orchards all over the State 



218 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

which owe their planting and success to the Society, and other thoa- 
sands which indirectly are located in the State because of it. The 
Society is not only the open book for others to read ia these matters, 
but it also an immigration bureau, and thousands write, saying: "I am 
going to move and want to know about the fruit interest before I go." 
I believe we can safely say that the Society has helped to locate more 
people than any other one thing. 

We can point with pride also to the displays this Society has made,, 
at the many different cities of the Union. The World's Fair and last 
year at St. Louis, where next to St. Louis, the most perfect exhibit was 
kept up for weeks and weeks. 

Only the other day I met the pret-ident of the college at Marshall 
and he never forgets to give us due praise and thanks for the planting 
we made there on the 40 acres of campus. Today it stands as a monu- 
ment to this Society, and in every catalogue the fact is mentioned. 
The planting at Warrensburg, and Drury, and Kirksville, and Kidder 
and Clinton are parts of our work. 

The great orchards that we find scattered over the State of 400, 
500, 1,000, 1,500 acres are a result of the Society, its work and its 
members. 

The local societies are one of the best outgrowths of the Society, 
and it is the best advertisement of a county to have a band of fellow- 
workers there scattering knowledge. 

The reorganization of the agricultural college and the establish- 
ment of the course in horticulture is an outgrowth of our discussions 
and efforts. 

But why outline more of these ways, more than to call your atten- 
tion to some of the work this Society is doing for the betterment of 
the State ? 

The work of the Experiment Station is now taking upon itself just 
that kind of work that they should have taken years ago, and we find 
our Board of Curators giving it the support both financial and moral 
that we have been fighting for, lo, these many years. 

Our library we have added unto until we have quite ? collection 
of books which are at the service of the members whenever they wish 
them. Very many have made use of the books when needing some 
especial help on some particular topic. I have mailed the book or 
books to them and after reading they have returned them in the same 
manner. Let me call your attentioo to this very valuable plan for 
using the library. We can make it a circulating library in fact. 

The farmers' institutes are a very, very important factor in our 
education and development, and our Society has its share in all this. 



i 



WINTER MEETING. 219 

The Vice-President has been with every one, and has well upheld oar 
honor and our position. 

The Book on Horticulture is a work that the Society has taken up, 
and in a few years it will have grown until it becomes a fact in earn- 
est. Horticultural education is a matter that we intend to have estab- 
lished one of these days all over the State, and then have it continued 
at Columbia to the improvement of our whole State, a matter of so 
much importance that we intend to be leaders in many others in our 
State. 

The matter of transportation and marketing and co-operation are 
some of the most important subjects we can investigate. Just how 
best to accomplish this is a very serious question, and it is to take 
years, I fear, to solve it rightly. The principle) is the correct one, and 
it only wants perfect management to make it right. It does seem to 
me that some large strong company will have to step in and help us; 
one which has cars of its own ; one which has agents of its own in all 
our large cities ; one which is responsible and safe and honest ; one 
which can put all its agents under bond ; one which will return the 
money the fruit brings. 

Another plan is to have a man of our own in all these large cities 
to see that honest returns are made. Why should a man shipping a 
car-load of stock follow it up to market and have no ticket to buy, 
when a car of fruit worth more than double should be allowed to go 
where it will and handled and sold and no one to watch it? 

And now dear friends, I have only attempted to outline some of 
the work to do and some we have done. As years go on, I find the 
work growing and improving, and developing in a remarkable degree. 
It is a work in which I delight. Nothing does me so much good as to 
make orchards of the black-jack or scrubby oak lands, or even the 
prairie lands of our great State. Thousands of these hills are the 
places where the apple delighteth to grow and flourish like a green 
bag tree. It is yours to be up and doing, and the results will not dis- 
appoint you. Study and work, and learn and work, and discuss and 
work. Anything you can learn from the experience of others and 
make that experience yours, do not fear to use it with good common 
sense and discretion. 

Education is only the study of what others have found out from 
experience and experiment. Study them, educate yourself in what 
you want to do and success is yours. 

The President of the Arkansas State Society asked me the other 
day, " what was the secret of the success of Missouri State Society V^ 
and I answered quickly, " union." The coat of arms of our State on the 



220 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETl^. 

back of the little badge we wear has these words : " United we stand 
Divided we fall," and this motto is ours, and from it comes our suc- 
cess. 

When fifteen years ago I was first elected your Secretary, when 
not one dollar was at our disposal, and our Society at a very low ebb. 
I then exacted a promise from the " twelve " who were present, that 
if the Society would stand by me and work together, 1 would accept, 
and not otherwise. How well the Society has carried out their promise, 
this meeting and the work for the fifteen years has plainly shown. To 
you belongs this credit as well as to the officers, and to the Society 
will come glory as long as we obey the motto of our State. 

L. A. Goodman. 



DISCUSSION. 

Mr. Murray — We always expect something from Mr. Goodman. A 
great part of our success as a Society is due to his good work as 
Secretary. 

Mr. Dubois, Cobden, Illinois — I want to compliment the Missouri 
State Society. I nave never attended your Society before, but I find 
it far ahead of the Illinois Society. 

Mr. Barnes, of Kansas — There is no one upon whom we lean for 
good suggestions more than your Secretary. I only wish that my re- 
port as Secretary of the Kansas Society, which I will offer in a few 
days, might be one-half as good as that we have just heard. 



WINTER MEETING. 



221 



REPORT OF A. NELSON, TREASURER, DECEMBER, 1897. 



June 


)7. 
11.. 
11.. 
11.. 
11.. 
11. 

11.. 
11.. 
11.. 
11.. 
11.. 

30.. 
30.. 

30.. 
30.. 
30.. 
30.. 
30.. 

31.. 
31.. 
31.. 

13.. 
13.. 
13.. 
13.. 

24.. 
24.. 

24.. 
24.. 

6.. 
6.. 
6.. 

6.. 

28.. 
28.. 

2.. 
2.. 

18.. 
IS.. 
18.. 

2.. 


EXPENSES. 

Premiums at Sprlngfleld 


$42 75 

20 00 

29 50 

5 00 

15 00 






Expenses of J. 0. Evans 






" N . F . M u r ray 






S. Miller ■. 

" L. A. Goodman 

Warrant No. 366 

Expenses of A Nelson 






8 70 

6 18 

10 00 

18 35 

1 50 


$112 25 




J. M. Stedman 

" stenographer 






visitors , hotel bills 






Pencils, pads, etc 






Warrant No. .S67 








44 73 




Express, $2.40, $1.65, $1.90, $2.22 


8 17 
60 00 






Typewriter, 3 months, $20 

Warrant No. 368 


68 17 




200 copies Leader 


2 00 
1 20 
7 50 
4 50 
66 66 






120 copies Republican 






Trip to St. Louis, L. A. Goodman 

Hotel, 3 days 

Salary of Secretary , June 

Warrant No. 369 








81 8& 


July 


P. O. bill 


10 35 
66 66 
12 00 






Salary of Secretary , July 






Expensesof G. B. Lamm 

Warrant No. 370 








89 01 


AufiT. 


P. O. bill, $9.75, freight, $23.46 


33 21 

10 60 

83 61 

1 65 






500 copies Southwest 






Express on reports 






Express, $1.40, 25c 






Warrant No. 371 








12"* 07 




Express, $4.34, $4. .30, $2 85, $6 80 

Blank book, $1.75, salary of Secretary, August, $66.66 


18 29 
68 41 






Warrant No. 372 '. 








86 70 




Expensesof N. P. Murray, Omaha, $6, $3 

P. O. bill, $44, $20 


9 00 
64 00 






Warrant No. 373 








73 00 


Sept. 


Express, $1.70, freight, $2, P. O. bill, $2.31 


6 01 
14 55 

35 50 

7 00 






Printing, $3.55, $11 

Expense of L. A. Goodman to Am. Pom. Soc. Sept. 1 to 3, R.R 

fare, $29.50, hotel. $6 

Sleepers and meals on trip 






Warrant No. 374 








63 06 




Typewriter 3 months 


60 00 
66 66 






Salary of Secretary, September 














126 66 


Nov. 


Printing P. O. cards, $1, P O. bill, $10 

P. O. bill, $10, salary of Secretary for Oct., $66.66 

Warrant No. 876 


11 00 

76 66 








87 66 




P. 0. bill, $20. program, $18.50 

Express, $11.35, salary of Secretary for Nov., $66.66 

L. .\. Goodman, trip to Slloam Springs, R. R. fare, $6. 85. hotel, 


38 50 

78 01 

S 85 






Warrant No. 377 








125 36 


Dec. 


Whitehead & Hoag, badges 


28 00 






Warrant No . 378 








28 00 



222 



STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



REPORT OF A. NELSON, TREASURER— Continued. 



Dec. 



10. 
10. 
10. 
10. 



10. 
10. 
10. 
10. 



10. 
10. 
10. 
10. 
10. 



23. 
23. 



189 


7 


June 


5 




30 


Sept. 


28 


June 


5 




5 


Dec. 


10 




10 



Expenses of Prof. J. M. Stedman, acc't San Jose scale, Nov. 1 
toDec. 1,1897 



Warrant No. 379. 



Freight, $5, expenses, $1.80, 85 plates, $2 70 

Trip to Bentonville, Ark., of L. A. Goodman, $7.35, hotel, $3.. 

Ink, mucilage, bands, $1.50, P. O. hill, $0 

Salary of Secretary for Dec. $66.66, typ writer, 3 months, $60. . . 

Premiums at winter meeting 

Expenses of J. C Evans, $14.15, N. F. Murray, $16.25 

Sam Miller, $9.40, L. A. Goodman and typewriter, $31.20.... 

A. Nelson. 



Expenses of G. B. Lamm, $8, W. G. Gano, $5. 

R B. Bally, stenoprapher 

MissM. E. Murtfeidt, entomologist 

Express, $20.28, Incidentals, $2 70 

Treasurer expense and P. O. bill 



Expenses of Institute, Salem, Mo.— 

A. Nelson, J. C Evans, G. A. Atwood — 

N. F. Murray to Iowa State Society, Des Molne's. 



RECEIPTS . 



Balance on hand 

Cash from State Treasurer 



Membership, L. A.Goodman. 

" A. Nelson 

" L. A. Goodman. 
" A. Nelson 



Total 

Balance in hands of Treasurer Jan. 1, 1898. 



$201 35 



10 35 

10 35 

6 50 

126 66 


136 50 
30 40 
40 60 
39 90 


13 00 

27 65 

25 25 

22 98 

3 90 


22 00 
12 72 



889 39 


638 28 


567 50 


31 00 


4 00 


19 00 


34 00 



$201 35 



153 86 



247 40 



92 78 



34 72 



1,845 64 



2,183 17 



337 53 
2,183 17 



WINTER MEETING. 223 



FRUITS, JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 

Frnit is one of our greatest blessiags, the extent of which we can 
never appreciate until dev>rive<l of it, like the water that is not missed 
until the well goes dry, or the sweet music 'til the bird has flown. 

In a country like this, if we do not have fruit the year round, it is 
alack of thrift; everything that will grow in this latitude will grow 
luxuriently if properly cultivated. We have a few around Moberly 
who are trying to follow in the foot-eteps of the horticulturist. They 
have tested our soil by planting apple, blackberry, raspberry and straw- 
berry, all on the same ground; in between the apple trees are planted 
the berries; they harvest from each a good crop; it is wonderful so 
much fruit can be grown on such a small spot of earth; it shows what 
horticulture can do. 

It is just as necessary for the man who attempts to grow fruit to 
be educated in horticulture, if success follows his work, as it is for a 
physician to understand the anatomy of the human body and the reme- 
dies for its relief. When we take into consideration what might be 
done in fruit-growing and the little that is done, we can see the great 
need of this great body of men here today from every part of our 
State. 

Fruit is both a luxury and healthful. The father who takes home 
one apple and divides it among three or four children, giving to each 
just enough for him to see how hungry they are for apple, I'd think 
would blush with shame that he had been so improvident in a land 
where plenty could be had. Children should have fruit as regular as 
bread. It makes them happier, healthier and better, whatever con- 
tributes to the health, brightens the mind and sweetens the disposition. 

It was fruit that helped to make Eden a paradise. We all know 
how tempting rich red apples are; their fragrance and beauty draws to 
them ; there are tijnes when we can hardly keep our hands off. I 
don't believe God would have blamed Adam very much for partaking 
of the forbidden fruit if he hadn't have said ''It was the woman thou 
gavest me;" when he said that I believe God thought the best thing to 
do with him was to put him to work. 

If man will grow the fruit I believe the women will take care of 
it. We are only too glad to have an abundance ; the perishable goes 
into our pantries in the form of preserves, jellies and canned fruits, 
which is ever ready, and no household is complete without it. I will 
not enter into anything so tedious as to tell how preserves and jellies 



224 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

are made, for every housekeeper has ber book of recipes, which is far 
better than anything T can give ; my attempts in this direction have 
been guided mostly by the eyes and palate, bat I will add that I get 
better results from rapid cooking with both jellies and preserves ; fruit 
that doesn't cook easily should be steamed tender before giving to the 
syrup, and that which cooks too readily should be lifted out two or 
three times while cooking ; this keeps it from breaking. Jelly is bet- 
ter not cooked too stiff, and it keeps better, for when too hard it 
draws from the glass and lets in the air, which ciuses it to ferment. If 
the tissue papers we put over our jellies are covered with sugar it will 
prevent mold. 

Man's work and food has much to do with man. Anyone might 
envy the horticulturist, with his frank and genial face, no conscience 
weighing him down ; his is a clean work, humanitarian, elevating, liv- 
ing so close to nature, he is in touch with nature's God. May his 
work go on and on, until every man, woman and child in our State and 
all the states and the whole world have all the health-giving fruit they 
need, and may no piece of bread be refused jelly or preserves. 

Mas. Wm. Quayle. 



DTSCUSSTOC?. 

Mr. Stanton of Illinois — We failed in Illinois to get a law passed 
to exterminate the San Jose scale. We did get an appropriation of 
$3,000 to investigate and experiment upon the scale. The State now 
has a professor spraying with whale-oil soap. When discovered, two 
years ago, the State Horticultural Society undertook to fight it, sup- 
posing that it was found in only one place. We have not discovered 
it in any nursery in the State, but have found it in twenty-nine different 
places. One place in the extreme southern part of the State is beyond 
control. It is about 25 miles square and is found in the forests. 

After visiting your meeting last year I returned home to find there 
an assistant of the State Entomologist, who located the scale in my 
pear orchard of 2,500 trees. I did not know before this that I had it, 
though I had lost a good many trees by the blight, as I thought. I 
undertook to fight the scale myself with soft soap and copperas, but 
was only partially successful. I used this mixture upon 1,700 trees. 
Upon many of them, I think, there is no scale left. I think soft soap 
will do if you can get it on all parts of the trees where scale is found. 
I feel encouraged. 

It is strange that there should be no scale in the nurseries of Illi- 
nois or this State when it is found in so many orchards, I am satis- 



WINTER MEETING. 225 

fied that there is hardly any locality where there is any considerable 
orchard interest where they have no scale. It is very important to 
start early if we expect to keep it in check. 

President Evans — How far will the three thousand dollars go 
towards lighting the scale? 

Mr. Stanton— I think if we had $0,000 we could eradicate the 
scale from the State. I think if you had as much as $5,000 you could 
make great headway fighting it in Missouri. 

Prof. Steadmau — In two instances it is found in forest trees and 
and hedge-fences. I think there is more scale in Missouri than in Illi- 
nois. 

Mr. Stanton — What I have said concerning this insect is for the 
good of this Society. You should unite and give a strong pull alto- 
gether. It does not seem necessary that any one should be sent to the 
Legislature to secure legislation of this kind, but we find that it is im- 
possible to get any bilbpassed without some one to look after it. 

The following were elected oflQcers for the ensuing year: 

N. F. Murray, President, Oregon, Mo. 

D. A. Robnett, First Vice-Prfsident, Columbia. 

Sam'i Miller, Second Vice-President, Bluffton. 

L. A. Goodman, Secretary, West port. 

A. Nelson, Treasurer, Lebanon. 



RECOLLECTION OF HOW THE STRAWBERRY INDUSTRY 
WAS STARTED AT SARCOXIE. 

On a pleasant spring morning in February, 1883, my friend Jas. 
B. Wild and I were talking about growing strawberries when Jim 
says: "John, why don't you grow strawberries for market?" I said, 
" why, great guns, Jim, I don't. know how to grow strawberries.'^ Jim 
said all I had to do was to come up to his nursery and buy about 2,998 
Crystal City and 1,002 Crescent plants with Wilson for late, (but 
by the way, Jim didn't know as much about varieties then as he does 
now ) so I bought my plants as direct, but Jim had forgotten to tell 
me how to plant them, or perhaps did not know how himself. He had 
accomplished his part of the deal, viz: selling the plants, so I had to 
go ahead and do the best I could myself. I plowed a strip of land 
between two apple tree rows, harrowed and dragged the same, then 
stretched a rope line the full length of the land; then all was ready 
for the plants, so now came the scientific part of the work. I first 
H— 15 



226 STATE HORTICDLTUEAL SOCIETY. 

went out on the public road and got a bushel or so of fine road 
dast, putting the same into a wash tub then pouring enough water 
into the tub to make a thin grouting. Then getiing my fine Crys- 
tal City plants I dipped the roots of each bunch in the grout- 
ing, then placing them in a basket I was ready to plant. So I 
commenced to dig holes along my rope line with a hoe, when along 
came my friend Franz Gustafson and said 'if you will come over to my 
house I will lend you my hedge dibble ; it will be juet the thing to set 
these with." I said, "what is a dibble? I don't know how to use a 
dibble." But I went over home with him, and as soon as I seen the 
dioble I said, "glory! that's just the thing I want." So with basket of 
plants in one hand and dibble in the other I went merrily to work, 
planting nearly all the ground in Crystal City before I happened 
to think that, perhaps, Crescent was almost as good a variety as Crys- 
tal City, but as Jim had advised 2,998 Crystal Citys, I thought they 
were surely the best. So I healed in most of the Crescent plants in 
case I needed them for replanting the Crystal City bed ( but by the way 
all of the Crystal Citys grew) ; and now came the hoeing and cultivat- 
ing. I hoed the bed 13 times and plowed nine times, and how the 
Crystal City grew and took up all the land was a caution, and to say 
that I was proud of my future prospect would be putting it vary mild. 
So now as the fall of the year was at hand, I asked Jim what to do 
next, and he said "mulch them, mulch them good with straw." I said, 
"how much ?" And Jim said that he had noticed in J. M. Rice's Sar- 
coxie Vindicator that Hicks had predicted a very hard winter and 
thought about 12 or 17 inches deep would be about right. Bat as 
straw was a little scarce that year, I only got my straw on about four 
or six inches deep. So all went along lovely till spring of 1884 ; then 
came the problem of what to do with so much straw. Bat, as usual, 
I went to Jim for advice, and he said " burn it ;" but after a little due 
reflection he said that, perhaps, it would be a better plan to rake the 
straw off the row into the path. Bat I said, "Jim, the Crystal City does 
not leave a path." Nevertheless, I went to work raking the straw off, 
and then I discovered that I had mulched too deep ; the foliage had 
all bleached white. But Jim said they would come out all right; 
bleeching would not hurt Crystal City like it did common kinds. So 
as spring advanced, out came the patch in full bloom, and oh ! what a 
sight ; wasn't I proud, though 1 But pride goeth before a fall, and lo ! 
when harvest time came nearly aF the berries I had came from one 
row of Crescent that I had planted at one side of the bed, on the 
poorest land I had. The Crystal City was a complete failure, except 
as to fertilize my one row of Crescent. But Crystal City and like kinds 



WINTER MEETING. 227 

liave long ago been delegated to the rear. Thus began the strawberry 
industry at Sarcoxie until now Sarcoxie is the largest single shipping 
point in the world. John Cae,naiia.n. 



DRAWBACKS OF CO-OPERATION. 

A good, careful grower of fruit, in disposing of it through the 
common channels of trade, ought to be entitled to a fair remuneration. 
He should not be compelled to content himself with the same price 
for his fruit with the slovenly, shiftless grower, who has no ambition 
to raise first-class fruit, but who is awfully interested to share in un- 
deserved profits with his painstaking neighbor. Progressive fruit- 
growers will find it to their interest to offer nothing to their customers 
which would detract them from securing a goodly supply of this most 
healthy and luscious of fruits, the strawberry, and I think the time is 
at hand when a little more attention regarding the quality of the 
strawberries wauld not be out of place in order to further increase the 
consumption. 

To come back to my topic I started oat with : One is at times apt 
to be misunderstood. I am not at all averse to co operation ; on the 
contrary, I am in perfect harmony with it, only I wish its drawback 
ijould be obviated. I have to illustrate this more forcibly, not in an 
unkindly spirit, but for the common good. Some of our growers 
failed to renew their old beds, and the consequence, as could be ex- 
pected, was a lot of inferior fruit. Now, the commission man to whom 
the berries are sent is a very busy man at that time, and frequently the 
berries of half a dozen are a dozen growers are sold together at the 
same price, and the good berries of one grower 'helps out to increase 
the poor and inferior berries of the other fellow. Now for the remedy 
of this ill practice. One plan of those that have given this matter a 
good deal of thought, and it undoubtedly has much to commend it, is 
to make two or more grades. The pickers, without any additional ex- 
pense or trouble (as I have been assured by those who helped to pick 
berries in this way), could make two grades. The berries from old 
neglected beds would have to be stamped second or third grade by an 
appointed inspector at the place of delivery, whose authority should 
not be questioned by anybody. It would probably be best to have 
the man who is to fill this responsible post to come from a distance, 
for the same reason that a prophet is not much esteemed in his own 
country, and two associations could exchange such men (as are above 
reproach). I enter into details purposely, as from these sometimes 



228 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

depeuds the success of an enterprise. We cannot afford to feel un- 
concerned in this matter, lest the hen that lays the golden eggs should 
be killed. Let us push onward, for "where there is a will there is a 
way." It includes a good deal of work to raise small fruit, especially 
strawberries, and it is just as important to dispose of the fruit as it is 
to raise it, in order to save disappointments. 

L. A. Goodman, A^estport, Mo.: 

Dear Sir— I had Intended to write on strawberry culture, but I And there has been 
much written on this subject to be almost confusing, and I could not, with the limited 
time I have, do It justice. On the other hand, writings on selling the fruit are not so 
plentiful. Earnest, up-to-date fruit-growers are invited to give their best thoughts on 
this subject, and if this question can be successfully solved, it will give fruit-growing an, 
Impetus as nothing else will. 

Wishing you a gODd meeting, I am. Respectfully yours, 

E. Leithold. 



Wednesday, 8 p. m. 

Meeting called to order by the President. 
Music — Piano duet. 



SOME USEFUL INSECTS AND THEIR PRODUCTS. 

Mr. President, GeDtlemen and Ladies — The subject assigned me 
on the program is "Our Insect Friends and Enemies," a sufficiently 
comprehensive theme which, in the allotted time, could only be cov- 
ered in a very general way. For a change from the usual character of 
entomological papers, I have thought it might be agreeable to view the 
subject from the optimistic side, and to note the benefits for which we 
are indebted to the insect world, so far as we recognize them, as an 
offset to the injuries, concerning which we nowadays hear so much. 
I shall, therefore, at this time only attempt to catalogue some of the 
more prominent of our insect friends. As for our insect enemies,, 
"that IS another storj'," and Mr. Stedman has already told it in part. 

In thinking of insects simply in relation to ourselves — in the light 
of the annoyance and loss they occasion us — we unwittingly do great 
injustice to an indispensable link in the great chain of organic being. 
We seldom remember — we do not even know — the countless indirect 
ways in which they contribute lo the wellbeing of the higher orders 
of animals, which, in their turn, are necessary to the comfort or luxury 
of man. 

The all-wise Creator, who fashioned these wonderously perfect, 
though tiny beings, did not do it simply to afflict tbo human family, 
although, as with many other agencies, they have been and no doubt 



WINTER MEETING. 229 

are still used for disciplinary pnrposes in ways which we do not always 
comprehend. Even the noxious species that temporarily cause us so 
much inconvenience and disappointment are valuable in creating habits 
of close observation, -of patience, perseverance, industry and foresight 
and for stimulating invention. But surprising as the statement may 
seem to some, the vast majority of insect speoips have none but benefi- 
cent relations to the vegetable and animal kingdoms; fertilizing tiowers, 
keeping down too exuberant plants, providing food for fish, birds and 
reptiles, and this outside of the few whose products man has learned 
to adopt to his needs or enjoyment. 

When we take a philosophical view of the subject we recognize 
that the l?*bor and trouble that man has with pernicious insects are 
largely the concomitants of his own enterprise and ambition. He in- 
terferes with the adjustments of nature, adapting her in a one sided 
way, to his own purposes, and when some of her laws, of which he did 
not take account — or would be in any case powerless to change — work 
out results that are inimical to his interests, he is surprised and imagines 
there is " some new soil under the sun." 

Oar era has been termed the "Age of insects, and yet it is not 
probable that more species exist now than in the earliest period of 
recorded time.'' Individuals have indeed been incomputably multi- 
plied, but man, not nature, has provided the conditions. Insects that 
were once local have become universal — transported over plains and 
mountains by our railroads and across broad oceans by our swifc 
steamers. The wide dissemination, not only of essential food plants » 
but of thousiads of others that minister to luxury or the aesthetic 
tastes; the unnaturally abundant food supply in grain fields, gardens 
and orchards upon which millions of insects are bred, where tens would 
scarcely have found sustenance on wild grasses, herbs or native fruits, 
and more than all, the destruction of wild animals and birds that origi- 
nally kept the too prolific grasshoppers, flies and catipillars in check 
are the modern agencies of insect-spread and multiplication. It will 
thus be seen that settlement and all the concomitants of high civiliza- 
tion have so disarrangd the natural adjustments of animal and veget- 
able life that it is no wonder thit certain species show disproportionate 
increase and vary in their habits to accommodate themselves to the 
new conditions. 

Had man been able to take account of all the probabilities, he 
might, no doubt, have prevented to a considerable extent the evils 
from which he suffers. But with all the unfortunate experience of the 
last century, the fact is that he still neglects to take the precautionary 
measures that might save him from an aggravation of the same troubles. 



230 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

But vast as is the sum of the losses from noxious insects, it is more 
than probable that the value of the products of the few directly useful 
species would more than offset them. 

Consider for a moment our indebtedness to the Chinese silk worm 
(^'•Bombyx mori" ). What other natural or artificially produced mate- 
rial can compare in beauty and durability with this exquisite fibre ? 
What has lent itself in so many ways to the artistic manipulations of 
man? When we pause before our spacious shop-windows to feast our 
eyes on the lustre of intricately-woven brocades, the silvery sheen of 
satius or the luxurious pile of glowing velvets and plushes, or when, 
still more effectively we see these costly fabrics draping the graceful 
forms of youthful beauty, or adding to the elegance of stately dames ; 
when we become bewildered among the list of other uses of supreme 
importance to which silk, in one form or another, is adapted, how in- 
credible, how marvelous, that all this varied loveliness and strength 
should be but the transmutation of the pale and frail mulberry leaf I 
Verily, of all the laboratories of nature, the internal economy of the 
silk worm is certainly the most wonderful ! Nor in this connection 
should we fail in our tribute of appreciation for the cesthetic inspira- 
tions of man in his dealing with this choice product. By the aid of 
artistic applications of color and form, involving the most ingenious 
mechanisms for their development, be has produced the very master- 
pieces of textile beauty and value, fit accompaaiment of the diamond 
among jewels and of gold among metals. 

There is a legend to the effect that it is to a Chinese princess that 
we are indebted for the discovery of the process of reeling the silk 
from the cocoons. How this came about we can only conjecture. It 
is probable that it was a mere accident — a child's play with the fluffy, 
golden and white balls by which, perhaps, the shining thread, becom- 
ing entangled around the little fingers, was, with some astonishment,,, 
drawn out to the length of a few yards. The fascination of the pro- 
cess would lead to its repetition, with a desire for greater success, 
until, to even the slow Oriental brain, would be suggested the appli- 
cation of moisture to loosen the gam that held the threads in place, 
and in this way the fundamental discovery of reeling the silk would 
be completed. 

Spining and weaving were practiced even in that remote periody 
placed by some authorities, as far back as 2700 years before the Christian 
era, so it would not be long before the new fibre would find its way to 
the loom and take its place at the head of all textile materials. After 
this the camel trains from "far Cathay" would sometimes contain 
among their treasures small rolls of soft and shining stuffs that would 



WINTER MEETING. 231 

be weighed ap to Pereiaa monarchs and Phoeuician mercbants against 
the purest gold, and only used as apparel by the greatest pereonages 
and on the most important occasions. For more than two thousand 
years distant and exclusive China kept the deiivation and manufacture 
of silk as one of her most important state secrets, and derived from it 
a very considerable part of her revenues. About the middle of the 
sixth century the secret was filched from her by two Christian monks, 
who, while directing the eyes of the heathen to spiritual matters, 
directed their own material vision to the source and methods of work- 
ing up of silk, and, after much difficulty and artifice, contrived to secrete 
a few eggs and the seeds of the mulberry in their staves and in this 
way to convey them safely to Italy. In its new home the silk worm 
flourished even more than in its native land, and its culture rapidly 
spread over Italy, Spain, Portugal, Prance and Sicily, and become one 
of the most profitable industries of these countries. 

Many attemps at silk culture have been made in America, but 
while both insects and plants flourish admirably in many localities, the 
cost in labor of producing the silk has been too great to enable it to 
compete with the raw silk of China, Japan and of Europe. But sericul- 
turists are still sanguine that conditions will become such that it may 
be profitably produced in the United States. Bombyx mori is not the 
only species of caterpillar whose cocoon can be utilized to the needs 
of man. The " Yarna mai,^^ an immense Bombycid of Northern Japan, 
which feeds on oak and forms a very large and compact, sulphur yellow 
cocoon, is used by the Japanese in the production of what is called 
"Tusseh silk," not so fine and smooth as that of the silk worm proper, 
but exceedingly strong and glossy and well adapted to many kinds of 
goods. The Silanthus silk worm fSamia cynthiaj, which makes a 
smaller and more cylindrical cocoon, has also been quite successfully 
experimented with and has become naturalized in most of the coast 
cities south of New York. Our own grand Cecropia, whose loose 
meshed, glossy, brown cocoon is largest of all, has been found to yield 
an excellent quality of silk, so also has the larva of our lovely, delicate 
hued Luna, but much difficulty has been experienced in rearing these 
species in congregations sufficiently large to derive any profit from the 
product. But, with the necessity for more earnest attention and experi- 
ment, it is probable that all difficulties could be overcome, and all these 
excellent fibers utilized, in which case the insects, that are now re- 
garded as pests, wonla become a source of revenue and the objects of 
intelligent care and interest. 

Next to the silk worm in value ranks the honey bee f Aphis nulijicaj, 
the "Whiteman's fly," as it was called by the Indians, who, in early 



232 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

days, noted the fact tbat it was never much in the van of the pale- 
faced aggressor. From the very earliest times the products of this 
insect were held in the highest esteem. Honey is frequently adverted 
to Holy Writ as one of the choicest luxuries, and is the theme of both 
poetry and prose of many of the classic authors. Before the discov- 
ery of sugar, the manufacture of which was not known in Europe until 
after the crusade, we can well imagine that honey was not only the 
ideal sweet, but that it was the only dependable source of that delecta- 
ble flavor. And even in onr own day, in which there are such a va- 
riety of sweets, its special character and incomparable excellence 
create for it an ever increasing demand. As is well known, the flavor, 
and to some extent the chemical composition, of honey depends upon 
the flowers from which the nectar is obtained. The celebrated honey 
of Mt. Hymettus, in ancient Attica, owed its delicate peculiarity to 
the wild thyme which covered the slopes of that historic hill, and tour- 
ists in the Swiss provinces of Norborne and Chamouni as they regale 
themselves on the honey that is invariably served with the matutinal 
and coffee are told that it is also made from the fragrant mints that 
are so abundant on the lower slops of the Alps. 

The heaths of England and Scotland and of other parts of the 
eastern continent also yield nectar of very characteristic and agreea- 
ble flavor. It is also well known that the honey of certain regions, 
though perfectly healthful to the bees, proeluces a deleterious effect 
upon man. Students of Greek will recall how. in Xenophn's Anabasis 
the honey of Trebezond is said to have produced the effects of intoxi- 
cation upon the entire army ; and European travelers say that, even in 
our day, the honey of that province is inedible, retaining a poisonous 
property from the principal honey plant, a species of Azalia. This is 
somewhat remarkable, in view of the fact that honey is not merely col- 
lected nectar, but undergoes a regular manufacture in the proventri- 
cuius or honey crop of the insect. 

The consumption of honey as food in Europe and America is very 
great. England, alone, besides her own product, imports from 50 to 
100 tons annually. Of its amount and value in the United States I 
have no very recent statistics, but in 1881 the yield was estimated at 
200,000,000 pounds, of which the money value would not fall below 
$60,000,000. It is not probable that it is less at the present time. It 
is said tbat honey of various species of wild bees, which build their 
nests in trees, is the principal article of food of certain tribes of South 
American Indians. In Spain and southeastern Europe bee-keeping is 
one of the most profitable industries. 

The uses of honev in medicine and the arts are multifarious. It 



WINTER MEETING. 233 

€ven assists in making- some brands of chewing tobacco more irresitible 
than they otherwise would be to the devotees of the weed. 

Another luxury for which we are indebted to the honey bee is wax. 
This is used chieily in the manufacture of those most aesthetic and 
beautifying illnminants, wax candles. In our day of kerosene, gas and 
electricity the candle of any sort is simply a luxury, but as such, those 
made of wax are still largely used by the artistic and fashionable, and 
by the devout as native oflFerings before shrines of the Madonna and 
other potent saints. In the arts wax has some uses for which no other 
material is equal, and the demand, at prices profitable to the producer, 
has always been equal to the supply. 

In considering the directly useful insects in the order of their im- 
portance to civilized man, we now come to those from which are ob- 
tained colors, lac, resins and coccus wax, which is very different in 
composition and in uses from beeswax. If I did not limit the species 
to those utilized by civilized man, I should proceed to enumerate the 
large number of insects which often preserve savage and semi-civilized 
man from starvation, but will leave these to be touched upon later. 

Of the two properties of material things that appeal to the eye, 
viz.: form and color, it is difficult to say which most quickly asserts 
the attention, or which gives greatest satisfaction. Nor is it necessary 
that we should attempt to balance the claims of one against the other, 
as both are, in a measure, indispensable to our conception of every 
object in the universe. Harmonious colors are an essential element of 
aesthetic enjoyment, and their value is in no danger of depreciation so 
long as nature, with her magic pencil of sunbeams, keeps such aglow- 
lug and varied panorama ever before our eyes. And, as the eye of 
man revels in the celestial glories of the sunset, or swells restfully 
upon the blue of the sea, or the verdure of forest and field, what 
wonder is it that he seeks, with enthusiasm, the means of reproducing 
their beauty in his own comparatively, puny creations and combina- 
tions ? To do this he has placed under contribution the mineral, vege- 
table and animal kingdoms; and with such success, that he is almost 
ready to challenge nature herself, to display a tint with which his art 
cannot vie. Among the most important of color producers are certain 
species of insects. These, almcst without exception, belong to a group 
distinguished for its vast numbers and general destructiveness, viz: 
the scale insects or bark-lice, and in the useful species man has found 
some compensation for the injury inflicted upon him by their predatory 
allies. 

Associated with the Tyrian purple — the ancient badge of royalty — 
which was the secretion of a small mollusc, found along the shores of 



234 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Phoenicea and the Grecian Isles — was the almost equally noble, " scar- 
let " and " crimson," often named in the Bible and other very ancient 
writings, as the most conspicuous and enduring of colors. These 
colors were also introduced into Egypt and the Eastern Monarchies by 
the enterprising Phoenicians, who obtained this " Kermes grain " or 
" Scarlet seed " from a small species of evergreen r»ak ( ^uercus cocci- 
/era J which grows along the coasts of ''Tarshisb," now Europe, and 
in many other parts of the world. The coloring matter in this, and in 
all similar species, resided in The dried, female scales, which, at certain 
seasons of the year, were brushed or scraped from the twigs and in- 
Insed in water. Another very important " Kermes grain" is found in 
Poland and the western and northern shores of the Black sea, in the 
form of a scale insect on the roots of the knawel ( Sclcra7ithus ■peren- 
nis.) This is still used by the Turks and Armenians for dying silk and 
wool, and for staining the tips of the women's fingers, producing the 
most beautiful rose colors. 

AmoDg the very first treasures seat back by the Spaniards from 
Mexico to their native country, early in the 16th century, was the won- 
derful cochineal insect {Coecus cacti)? which, it was found produced 
nearly ten times as much coloring matter to the pound as any of the 
eastern scarlet seeds. This proved to be the most valuable of dying 
materials up to a very. recent date, when the discovery of the aniline 
dyes, as one of the various products of coal tar, reduced its commer- 
cial importance. It is still, however, very largely used and is indis- 
pensable for tinting confectionery, preparing children's paints and many 
other purposes for which the more or less poisonous mineral dyes are 
not adapted. It is in the form of a brown scale which feeds upon a 
cactus resembling our common prickly pear. At certain seasons of 
the year these scales are brushed from the plant with a squirrel's or 
stag's tail by the patient Indian women who will sometimes spend a 
half day collecting from a single plant. It is said that it takes 70,000 
insects to weigh a pound. In 1856, before the mineral colors had 
usurped its place, the exportation of this precious scale from Mexico 
and the West Indies, to which it had been introduced, amounted to 
nearly 2,000,000 pounds. 

Another very valuable product of certain coccids is a peculiar re- 
sin called lac. This is indispensable in the manufacture of many of 
the finest varnishes and sealing waxes, and especially so in the prepa-, 
rations of lacquers for coating brass and other metals. The insects 
secreting those useful scales live on a variety of trees in India and the 
substance is produced in great abundance and' is one of the staple 
exports to the surrounding nations, as well as to Europe and America- 



WINTER MEETING. 235- 

It is the secret of the beauty of much of the East Indian, Chinese and 
Japanese bric-a-bac and ornaments for the adornment of v/omen. 
Mingled with a email proportion of cochineal some varieties of oriental 
lac yield a tine dye. It has homelier uses, too, such as the formation 
of grind stones when, combined with a certain sort of sand. An ink 
of peculiar properties is also made from lac, with the addition of lamp 
black and borax. 

In China another and more rare species of scale insect excretes a 
very delicate white wax, called by the natives pe la; mingled with oil 
it forms a brilliant illuminant. It is also employed in the cure of various 
diseases, and is said to be very efBcacious in giving assurance to timid 
orators, who swallow a lump of it when about to i"peak in public. Its 
use is, however, strictly reserved for royalty and the highest mandarins. 

America has several species of laccoccids, which may, in time, be 
placed under contribution to the luxury or convenience of man. In 
the late Prof. Riley'j^ report as U. S. entomologist for 1883, he mentions 
two lac insects of the southwestern states as meriting attention and 
experiment. One of these occurs on the Creosote plant {Larrea Mexi- 
cawa ), and another on a species of Mimosa; neither plant at present 
of any economic value ; also a wax secreting insect on certain Cali- 
fornia oaks. It was his (tpiuion that all of these insects might, by cul- 
tivation, be made to yield valuable and merchantable products. 

In Chili there is produced by the bites of a small caterpillar, on a 
species of Origanum, such quantities of a peculiar resin, that it is largely 
used in ship building in the place of tar. 

Mr. Charles Dudley Warner, in his "Mexican notes," asserts that 
brilliant and durable lacquer which makes the "Uruapen" ware so 
unique and so famous, is compounded mainly from the bodies of tree 
caterpillar. This "worm paste," the exact secret of which has not 
been divulged, is sold for two dollars per pound, but is not allowed to 
become an article of export from the province. 

Another group of insects to which writers are especially indebted 
are some of the gall-making cynips. "Gall nuts" and "Aleppo galls" 
brought to Western Europe and America from the town of Aleppo and 
also from Smyrna and Trieste have long furnished black dyes of tine 
quality and formed the principal ingredient of all first-class writing inks. 

In olden times, when the more nauseous the dose the more effica- 
cious it was considered to be, insects had a very prominent place in 
the pharmacopeia of every physician. To quote from Kirby : "Pow- 
der of silk worms was the leading remedy for vertigo and convulsions ; 
millepedes for jaundice ; earwigs to strengthen the nerves ( ! ) ; fly-water 
for disorders of the eyes ; ticks for erysipelas ; powdered gnats for de- 



236 STA.TE HORTICULTURAL SOCIEIY. 

rangemeot of the stomach; lady-birds for cramps and measles ; the 
cock-choper for the bite of mad dog and the plague," Tbe learned and 
humorous author continues : "These good times are long gone by, 
but, after all, mankind are apt to run from one extreme to another. 
From having ascribed too much efficacy to insect remedies we may 
DOW ascribe too little. Many insects emit powerful ordors, and some 
produce extraordinary effects upon the human frame, and it is an idea 
not altogether to be rejected, that they may concentrate into a smaller 
compass the properties and virtues of the plants upon which they feed 
and thus afford medicines more powerful in operation than the plants 
themselves." 

At present medicine acknowledges but slight indebtedness to the 
insect world. One insect only could scarcely be spared by doctors 
and druggists. This is a medium-sized metallic green beetle, known 
to science as cantharides vessicatoria and popularly as "Spanish tly" or 
cantharides. It is largely used, not only to produce blisters, but forms 
an important ingredient in many internal remedies. It is also the most 
active principle of many popular lotions and stimulants for the hair. 
The cantharides used by physicians are imported, but we have in the 
United States a number of native species whose vesicatory properties 
have been experimented with and found to be, in many respects, even 
superior to those of the European species. Could these be substituted 
for the latter it would save the country one of its costly imports. 

Another insect product indispensable to m>iny cheoaicdl processes 
is formic acid. This was until a comparatively recent date obtained by 
distillation of red ants. 

To us who are nourished on the best of meats, the finest grains 
and most luscious fruits, the idea of eating any form of insect life is 
utterly repugnant. And yet this repugnance is mere unreasonable 
predjudice, for we count among our choicest delicacies some animals 
that are far more repulsive of aspect than the majority of insects; 
such for instance as crabs, lobsters and shrimps, or even the much 
esteemed oyster. 

As a matter of fact, insects have and still do figure as an important 
article of diet for many races and tribes, chiefly of savage people. 
The destructive locust of the eastern continent — a grasshopper as we 
should call it — about four times the size of our Rocky Mountain grass- 
hopper, has been an almost staple article of food for the people of 
Southern Asia and Northern Africa. As this insect eats the more 
legitimate food of the human inhabitants, they have no resource in 
order to escape starvation butto eat in their turn, and by salting, smok- 
ing and roasting to preserve it for use for many months. 



WINTER MEETING. 237 

In 1877, when the western and southwestern states suffered so 
seveily from the incursions of the Rocky Mountain grasshopper, Prof. 
Riley made quite extensive and varied experiments with them to ascer- 
tain their food value, and while no one who was regaled on his "locust 
feast" would choose the latter instead of the ordinary viands of a 
civilized table, still he demonstrated the fact that small and shelly as 
these grasshoppers are, they could be so prepared as to save human 
beings from starvation, while many of the lower animals, as is well 
known, fatten upon them with amazing rapidity. 

Among the delicacies of the Greek table in ancient times were 
various preparations of cicadoa — insects of the same family and very 
similar to our so-called " 17-year locust." These dishes are referred to 
by many classic writers in terms of the highest praise. In the same 
spirit of enterprise which induced him to test the value of the grass- 
hopper, and to discover what ground the Greeks had for their appre- 
ciation, Prof. Riley instituted gastronomic experiments with this insect 
also, selecting for his bisques and fries the plump, cream-white larvae, 
or the soft-shelled pupae, just as they emerged from the soil, and under 
the manipulations of a skilled cook, several excellent dishes were 
served, which were apparantly much enjoyed by those invited to par- 
take. But as this insect appears only at such long intervals and is not 
seriously destructive to vegetation, we cannot expect it ever to become 
a staple article of food. 

It is chiefly in Africa and South America that insect eating is with 
certain tribes a constant practice. The specie^ thus utilized are mainly 
white ants fTermesJ, and a considerable variety of tree-boring grubs. 
Some of the latter, which are found in the terminal buds of the cocoa- 
nut palm, are said be peculiarly fine flavored and nutritious. 

The white ants of certain districts of Africa are described as build- 
ing regular cities, with compact clay towers rising to a height of from 
25 to 30 feet. In these are often found stored a considerable quantity 
of the wild grains of the locality. The discovery of such a termite city 
is always hailed with joy by the savages, who stupefy the inmates with 
smoke and afterwards eat them, together with the grain which they 
had collected. The Indians of the southwest coast are often saved 
from starvation by the ability to eat certain insects, and one or two 
species of the latter are regarded as choice delicacies. 

The insects enumerated will sufQce to show that man has found 
even in this lowly and individually ipsignificant class of beings some 
that contribute to his material wealth and enjoyment. But we have 
many insect friends that do us good service in a thousand ways of 
which we are not aware. Many are scavengers and devour or bury 



238 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

decaying animal or vegetable matter that would load the air with poison- 
ous germs. Others are predaceous and destroy multitudes of pests 
that annoy us in person or ravage the products of our fields and gar- 
dens. Still, others are parasitic, and assist us to an extent which we 
cannot compute in keeping in check the most pernicious vegetable 
feeders. The importance of becoming acquainted with these small but 
serviceable friends of ours can scarcely be over-rated. As yet, in nine 
cases out of ten, they are looked upon as the depredators and ruth- 
lessly destroyed. 

One lady last spring told me with great satisfaction that she had 
found the tiy that laid the eggs from which the plant lice on her roses 
hatched. She showed me the culprit. It was a lace wing fly, which 
was busy placing its eggs, each ou its slender stalk, among a colony 
of the lice. She did not know that its lavae would have speedily 
cleared the bush of the sap-sucking aphides. Another friend had her 
gardner busy for days searching for and killing the aligator-shaped 
larvae of the lady-bug beetles which were helping to save her honey- 
suckles from destruction. 

We have still much to learn of insect life and its adaptabilities, 
and now that so much attention is being paid to it we can but hope 
that not only shall we learn lo conquer our foes but that we may add 
many species to our list of friends. 

Mary E. Murtfeldt, Kirkwood, Mo. 



DISCUSSION. 

Mr. Dubois — I don't attend this Society very often ; this the first 
time in about a hundred years, so I hope you will allow me a little 
time. When horticulture was in need of a great exponent, the Frnit- 
Orowers' Journal came to the front ; when human rights required a 
Lincoln, a Lincoln came to the front; when potato bugs and other in- 
sects became so plentiful that our crops were threatened with exier- 
mination, then the male entomologist came to the front. They are gen- 
erally poor in this world's goods, but I hope they have treasure laid 
up where no bugs can bother. When the'males were about to fail, the 
lady entomologist came to the front. Of these Missouri has one of 
the best. I think our male entomologists would not be entirely happy, 
even in heaven, without a codling- moth or a San Jose scale ; and per- 
haps the lady entomologist would not be entirely happy without a lady- 
bug or a silk worm. 










% ♦ 

^ ^ 




3 

22 



25 
O 

m 
n 






05 
D5 



Oh 

D 

O 



WINTER MEETING. 239 



CULTIVATION OF YOUNG TREES. 

Mr. President — The subject assigned me by your Secretary is 
*'The Cultivation of Young Trees." It is my purpose to treat this 
subject, not from a merely theoretical standpoint, but chiefly from a 
practical point, of view. I know of no better way to tell you how I 
would cultivate young trees than to tell you how I have cultivated 
them. 

Five years ago I bought two tracts of land, one of 96 acres and 
the other of 37. The larger tract is located on a high ridge, formerly 
-covered with a heavy growth of timber, chiefly hickory, oak and elm. 
But the larger portion had been in cultivation about 30 years. Some, 
however, was still covered with timber. The land i's fairly rich, but 
I selected it because of its porus subsoil, rather than the fertility of 
the top soil. The smaller piece is located on the bluffs of Grand river, 
a portion extending into the bottom. This piece is very sandy, the 
soil on the ridges being of a light, ashy color, not good for grain, and 
formerly covered with white oak timber. The bottom is a rich, black 
loam, with a very sandy subsoil. 

After the purchase I proceeded to make these tracts ready for 
trees, which I did by preparing the land for corn. However, I had 
purchased 3,000 apple trees in the fall and "heeled" them in, ready for 
the spring set. I bought two year-old trees, 2,000 of one man and 1,000 
of another. One nursery was located about sixty miles distant, and the 
other about twenty-five miles. When the trees came I opened the 
boxes and found that the trees of the thousand lot were much larger 
than those of the two-thousand lot. I was proud of these trees, but 
there lurked a suspicion within me that they were more than two years 
old. I was assured, however, that the tops were two years old and 
the roots three. I am still satisfied that the tops were at least two 
years old. They were fine, however; I mean they were large. The 
trees had been trimmed about waist high to a tall man, an unusual 
thing with two-year old trees. The limbs, which had many side 
branches, were pressed into the boxes so closely as to crack the bark 
near the body of the tree. The limbs were alive at first, but were not 
all thus in three months after setting. As a result the laps, already 
much too high, were made higher, and often the limbs on the south 
side died, leaving the trees in bad shape. Before I knew what would 
happen, I set these fine large trees near the public road. I wanted 
people to see what a fine lot of trees I had. I set the other lot out in 



240 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

the middle ot the field. They were two-year-old trees that had been 
growing on thin soil but two years, and were not overgrown culls, three 
or foor years old, with tall laps and bad roots. It is needless to tell 
you where my fine trees are now. It is further needless to say that I 
want no more large trees shipped in boxes. I have since bought and 
set about 6,000 trees, some one year old, some two, some three, and 
some even four. My worst luck was with the one-year-old trees, and 
my best lack with twos, although I have had good luck with three- 
year-old trees when I selected them in the nursery and had them 
delivered in hay-racks on wagons. 

I prepared a track, say forty acres, by dividing the opposite sides 
into equal portions by means of a measuring line, setting pegs where 
each row of trees should end. I then subdivided this again and again^ 
by setting stakes within the tract to be set, till I separated it into 
blocks of about 100 trees. I then took laths and placed them on two 
sides of this block, while pegs were placed on the two other sides. 
I then proceeded, with the help of one or two men, better with two, 
to place small pegs where each tree was to be set. After these blocks 
were thus made ready, I prepared a narrow board for each man who 
was to set the trees. This board was about six feet long, with an inch 
hole in each end and a deep notch in the exact center. Two headless 
pins were prepared for the ends of each board. The notch was then 
placed by the planter against the pin where the tree was to stand. 
The headless pins were stuck through the inch holes in the board, and 
were fixed firmly into the ground. The board was then removed, 
leaving the inch pins in the ground, the hole was dug with a spade, 
the tree was placed in the hole, the plank was placed in its former 
place, the tree was brought into the notch, the dirt was carefully 
pressed around the roots with the hands till the tree was firm in its 
place, the plank was again removed, and the work was finished with 
the spade and feet, always leaving the ground firm about the tree. I 
set the trees only about an inch deeper than they were in the nursery, 
but drew the dirt around the tree considerably higher than the general 
level of the surrounding land. This is especially necessary if the 
setting is done in the fall. All things considered, I prefer to set in 
the spring. 

After setting the first lot of 3,000, I was told that it would be a 
good thing to get elm board wraps to keep off rabbits and borers. 
But I learned to my loss that these same wraps were the finest of 
harbors for mice and the woolly aphis, and I lost more trees from the 
ravages of mice than I have ever lost from rabbits. It is fair to say, 
however, that I have not given the rabbits the same favorable oppor- 



WINTER MEETING. 241 

tunity. The woolly aphig, with the appearance of cotton, covered the 
trunks of many trees, and caused excrescences to grow upon the trees 
to their decided damage. But this was not all, nor even the worst. 
The boreis, instead of being afraid of the dark holes made by these 
wraps, found a most convenient place to deposit their eggs. I soon 
found that I must remove the wraps and take out the borers, or I 
would soon have but few trees. I removed the wraps, and picked out 
the borers two or three times during the summer. The temptation was 
strong to discover the borers without entirely removing the wraps, and 
as a result many were left and a large number of trees was injured, 
some being entirely killed. 

While upon this subject, I may just as well say that borers are 
numerous in these parts. The greatest number we have ever taken 
from one tree is 36, although it is common to iind a dozen or more. In 
the spring I remove the dirt from the base of the trees and examine 
with the utmost care to find any borers that may have been left in the 
fall. In about 7,000 trees we usually find about 25 "wprms" that have 
been accidentally left in the fall. This work is done as soon as the 
ground is in good condition in the spring, care being taken not to 
make the ground too loose near the tree, as the rains will soak this 
loose dirt full of water, and the winds will cause the tree to become 
loose in the ground. It has cost me a good deal of money to keep the 
trees from leaning or causing holes in the dirt around the base. But 
this difficulty is largely remedied by drawing the dirt to the trees, mak- 
ing a neat hill about nine inches high. The chief advantage of the hill, 
however, is to compel the beetle to deposit its eggs above the level of 
the ground. This hill will gradually become lower through the sum- 
mer. When the trees are hoed, the utmost care is taken not to elevate 
the hill the fraction of an inch above where it is found, as the eggs of 
the beetle might thereby be placed below the surface of the ground. 
These beetles deposit their eggs but a short distance above the sur- 
face of the ground. These places are easily detected, having much the 
appearance of a small wound made by inserting a pen-knife into the 
bark of a tree. Should these i>Iaces be fresh, usually about June or 
July, it occasionally happens that the sudden jj,rring of the tree will 
bring to the ground the author of the mischief. It is a beetle, popu- 
larly called a *' bug," somewhat larger and harder than a lightning 
"bug." It has very long antennae, or "horns," which remind one of 
the horns of a goat. It is of a dull lead color with two milk-white 
stripes along the back almost the entire length. 

H— 16 



242 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Along about the middle of July, depending somewhat upon the 
season, the young borers have begun to develop. Take a butcher 
knife, or if the ground is hard take a hoe, and also a good, keen, sharp 
pointed pocket knife. Tbere will usually be little need to search below 
the surface if the trees have been properly managed in the spring. But 
to make sure that none are below the surface, the dirt is removed from 
the trunk two or three inches, and again returned after a thorough ex- 
amination. But more than ninety per cent will be several inches above 
the general level of the ground, and can be removed in a very short 
time. A good hand can "worm" about a thousand trees, five years old 
and younger, in a day, and will often find more than a thousand "worms." 
In three or four weeks the same process is repeated to catch what may 
have been left, and also those hatched later. Again about the last of 
September the trees are carefully examined for winter quarters, and 
the few that have escaped are taken out. This last work will probably 
not leave more than twenty-five borers in seven thoasand trees, and 
these are usually undeveloped. 

I have no faith whatever in wire screens or wraps made of cloth 
or wood, as a preventive to borers. I have seen them tried and 
found wanting. Furthermore, I have but little faith in washes. Doubt- 
less they do sometimes help, and are, if the right kind, beneficial to 
the trees. But I have unbounded faith in two keen eyes and a good, 
sharp knife industriously applied. 

To protect from rabbits I have tried elm wraps, paper, lime wash 
and corn stalks. The elm wraps invite mice and the woolly aphis; 
paper becomes wet and the wind blows it off; the rabbits seem to like 
the lime and eat the trees with more avidity, if possible, than if no lime 
were on them; bat corn stalks stuck well into the ground, and well 
tied near the top with twine are satisfactory. It cost me now about 
three dollars a thousand to protect with stalks. Grease, blood and 
some other substances will keep off rabbits as long as they remain on; 
but before one is aware of it the substances are washed off and the 
rabbits have killed your trees ; or an old sow comes along and makes 
a good square meal of the grease and blood on them. 

Thus far I have usually cultivated corn in the young orchard. 
My trees, most of them, are set twenty-seven feet apart. This gives 
room for six rows of corn between the rows of trees and one row of 
corn in the row of trees. When small, each tree takes the place of 
just one bill of corn, and does not damage any other hills. In this way 
the marker can go twice between the rows of trees, and the corn 
planter three times. It is then necessary to plant but one row in seven 
with a hand planter. I cultivate six rows with a common two-horse 



WINTER MEETING. 243 

cultivator and the seventh row with a common double shovel. Care 
at all times is taken not to piovv too deep near the trees; and yet, the 
roots should not be allowed to run too near the surface, as in dry 
weather the trees would be damaged. The plow does most of the 
culture, but the hoe is also brought into service. I hoe my trees as 
carefully as the gardener hoes his cabbage. Not a spear of grass is 
allowed to grow near the trees. In this way lam able to guard against 
mice, and easily to see any borers that enter the trunks of the trees. 
We are troubled but little with the flat-head borer, unless the trees 
become stunted, and then I promptly cut them down. I have destroyed 
well-nigh two thousand trees, including what have died from other 
causes. It is poor economy to cultivaie stunted trees. I found this 
to be true when I seta few hundred three-year-old trees about the size 
of common trees a year younger. I have destroyed, perhaps, one-third 
of them, and it would have been economy to have destroyed about 
another third. 

I have learned that very rich new ground is not best for young 
trees. The light, loose soil filled with roots and sticks does not furnish 
a suitable place for starting new roots. Furthermore, the corn grows 
very rank and tends to check the growth of the trees. Dry weather 
comes and the tree is stunted. The bark becomes hard and dry and 
flat-heads attacks the trees. There remains nothing to do but to dig 
them out and replace them with other trees. 

I have found low laps, not forks, to be the ideal. The bodies are 
thus protected from the sun, and are much more thrifty than trees with 
high laps. Besides, the labor of harvesting is materially lessened by 
having as much fruit as possible within reach of the ground. I may as 
well add here that I prune but little. I get trees, as far as I can, with 
plenty of lap and a center stem. I prune but little when I set. I 
have found that it is useless to prune heavily, as the trees with large 
laps live just as well as those with smaller laps, if the roots are good. 
Again, it injures a tree to cover its body with wounds made by cutting 
the branches off. Especially would I refrain from the somewhat com- 
mon practice of cutting oiBF the ends of the limbs. After the tree is 
set, I trim just enough to avoid forks, one-sided trees, and cross limbs 
which are liable to rub. In this way nature forms a nice top without 
water sprouts. A young man searched my orchard for half au hour to 
find a single water-sprout and found none. He said it kept his father 
busy about all sum jaer to keep the water-sprouts oJ0F about a thousand 
young trees. His father believes that pruning makes a tree grow. He 
would object, however, if some one should advise him to cut off some of 
his fingers and toes in order that his health might be improved. These 



244 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

cases are not strictly analagous,and yet wounds in either the animal or 
vegetable kingdom are not essential to the well-being of the individuaL 

As to the value of the foregoing, the orchard is hear to bear wit- 
ness. All admit it to be one of the finest, if not the finest, of its size 
in this section of country. I have not yet received large returns in 
fruity bat quite as large as I desire. My object is to grow good, thrifty 
trees, and the fruit will surely come bye and bje. A few of my trees 
bore over a bushel each this year, and hundreds had a few apples 
each. The orchard consists of about 5,000 Ben Davis, 1,000 Willow 
Twig and 1,000 Jonathan, besides a variety orchard of about 200 trees. 
This does not include peaches, pears, plums and cherries. 

In conclusion, I will say that the plan given above is the plan I 
have followed, and not the result of the imagination ; nor is copied 
from some journal or horticultural report. These rules doubtless can 
be improved upon, even for this section of country, and must of neces- 
sity be materially changed for other localities. This plan has been 
carried out principally by good hired help, my duties in the Chillicothe 
Normal occupying my time except a sufficient amount to oversee the 
work. G. A. Smith, Chillicothe, Mo. 



The following paper was presented by J. W. Rouse of Mexico, 
Mo., and was taken from the American Bee Journal from its report of 
the United States Bee-keepers Union, Buffalo convention : 

RELATION OF BEES TO HORTICULTURE. 

There is a widespread prejudice against the honey-bee. Why? 1 
want to explain to you as well as I can in the few minutes allowed me, 
facts that go to show that the prejudice is unfounded, and that the 
honey-bee is the greatest friend of the fruit-grower, if not indispensa- 
ble to successful horticulture. 

There is in plants or flowers what answers to sex in animals. 
Sometimes both sexes exist in the same flower, sometimes in different 
flowers of the same plant, sometimes on separate plants. But what- 
ever the plan of growth, fruitfuluess depends upon the fertilization or 
pollination of the pistil by the grains of pollen produced on the stamen. 
The stigma, generally the upper part of the pistil, is a part denuded 
of the epidermis, touched with a viscid (sticky) substance, and when 
the proper pollen adheres to this part the pollen puts forth pollen tubes 
which lengthen till they reach the ovules, which completes fertilization 
and causes fruit or seed to grow. 



WINTER MEETING. 



245 



In our fruits generally both pistil and stamens are present in the 
same flower, thongh there are exceptions. Under such circumstances 
one's first thought, perhaps, would be that there could be no difficulty 
in securing thorough pollination. 

But we have other principles to reckon with. Nature abhors in- 
breeding, and resorts to various devices to prevent it, the most famil- 
iar one being the "ripening" of the two parts of the flower at differ- 
ent times, and pollen from the same flower in most cases has a much 
less potent influence on the pistil, if indeed it has any at all. 

But you may ask: Are not our fruits exceptions in this matter? 
Let facts answer : 

Prof. A. Cook carefully experimented with the bloom of the apple, 
crab apple, pear, cherry, strawberry, raspberry and clover. In some 
cases the experiment was duplicated or triplicated. In each particu- 
lar case an equal number of blossoms were selected from adjacent 
branches. One lot was marked with a tag, the other surrounded by 
cheese-cloth. I cannot enter into details, but these are the results: 



Ulooms. 



Covened 
fruits. 



Apple 

Apple 

Orati apple 

Apple 

Pear 

Cherry 

Strawberries.... 
Strawberries.... 
Strawberries.... 

Raspberries 

Clover (red) 

Clover (white) . 



40 

75 

200 

160 

140 

300 

60 

212 

123 

184 

h'dSlO 

h'ds 10 



9 

9 

80 

20 

93 



Uncov'rd 

fruits. 



15 

3 

3 

9 

7 

119 

27 

104 

36 

160 

191 

541 



Again, in 1894, since his removal to California, Prof. Cook made 
similar experiments with plums, cherries and pears. Two plum trees, 
one cherry and two pear trees were made use of in the experiment. 
On each tree three lots of blossoms were selected instead of two (as 
ia the other case), the number of blossoms varying in each tree from 
32 upward, the lots on any one tree of cource having an equal number. 
One lot on each tree was left uncovered, the second lot was covered, 
but with bees introduced under the covering, and the third lot was 
covered, excluding all bees. All proper precautions were taken to se- 
•care reliable results. The result was that there was not a single fruit 



246 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

on any of the twigs from which bees were shut out. On the twige 
covered with sacks, into which bees were put, there were on the pluras^ 
three and five, the cherry five, on the pears six an eight respectively. 
On the uncovered branches of the plums were eight and five, the 
cherry seven, and the pears eight and eleven : 



Bees Not 

enclosed, covered. 




From one-fourth to one-twentieth only developed fruit, but this 
fortunately is always so. 

What makes these experiments all the more favorable to the bee 
is that maoy small insects, called thrips, were noticed on the blooQi 
inside the coverings, yet though they must have carried pollen from an- 
ther to stigma, and from blossom to blossom, yet without so much as 
pollinating one pistil. 

In one experiment with the plum. Prof. Cook covered a branch, 
and when it was in bloom, and the bees working in force on the trees^ 
he removed the sack, and keeping watch marked the blossoms on 
which he saw bees work. When he ceased watching the branch was 
re-covered, and at length the four blossoms alone on which he saw 
bees alight developed into plums. 

No doubt some varieties of our common fruits are self-fertile, but 
none the less should cross-fertilization be sought, for the great ad- 
vantage ot it, even where flowers are self-fertile, is abundantly proved 
by Darwin and others. 

It is to be noted that cross-pollination is accomplished only by 
the application of the pollen of one variety to the pistils of another 
variety. Cross-polliDation cannot be effected between two trees of 
Baldwins. All Baldwins are in effect one tree, so of other varieties. 
Hence the pertinancy of the advice of Mr. M. B. Waite, endorsed by 
Prof. Cook. 

"Plant mixed orchards, or at least avoid planting solid blocks of 
one variety. It is not desirable to have more than three or four rows 
of one variety together unless experience has shown it to be perfectly 
self-fertile." 

In this connection I quote Prof. Barrows ; he says of apples : Most 
varieties are practically self-sterile, and so far as we know now are 
completely self-fertile. In what way is cross-pollination best accom- 
plished? In some cases this is well done by the wind (as in corn and 



WINTER MEETING. 247 

the pine). But with our fruits this agency must be very uncertain and 
ineffectual. And perhaps that fruit blooms fail to become pollinated 
when the weather is too cool for insects to move goes to show the 
same thing. Our chief and only safe reliance for the performance of 
this function must be upon insects. But insects differ greatly both in 
numbers and activity. 

During the time when Prof. Cook was making the first experiment 
[ referred to, he made observations to determine the rtomparative num- 
bers of different insects to be found upon the blossoms, and he esti- 
mated that at that time there were 20 honey bees to one of all other 
kinds at work on the bloom. Ju his California experiments he found 
there were 100 bees so engaged to one of all other kinds. I think 
this last — 100 to 1 — would be nearer ihe rale in Michigan in the neigh- 
borhood of an apiary of any considerable size. Then if we consider 
the immensely greater activity of the bee over that of most other in- 
sects, darting like a shot from flower to flower, and from tree to tree, 
the conclusion is inevitable that we must rely chiefly for cross-fertili- 
zation on the bee. 

Busy bee, pray tell me why, 

Thus from flower to flower you fly. 
Culling sweets the live-long day. 

Never leaving off to play. 

We know the answer so far as it immediately concerns the bee, 
but if that were the only reason, why does the flower that lasts but 
for two or three days secrete the nectar that attracts the bee, instead 
of the leaf, which endures for the season, and which could therefore 
so much better serve her ? Nature made no mistake ; the welfare of 
the bee was not the first consideration. 

Notwithstanding all this, there is undoubtedly, as I stated at the 
outset, a prejudice against bees, and for these reasons : 

First — Because of a belief that the bees take something from the 
plant that will render it less productive; or something that is of value 
to the grower of the plant. 

What I have already said shows the fallacy of the first branch of 
this belief, and as to the other branch of it I have this to say, that 
bees gather from domestic plants nectar and pollen only. The nectar 
of clover, for instance, can never be of any value to the farmer. A. 
shower washes the blossoms so thoroughly that the bees do not work 
on them for several hours afterward. The nectar in that case, to be 
sure, goes into the soil, but any well-informed chemist would tell you 
that it has no value even as a fertilizer. The pollen, in like manner, if 
ungathered, would go into the soil, and there it would have some value 



248 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

as a manure, equal for that purpose to perhaps about the same quality 
of bran, and in no case could it amount to more than a few pounds from 
a large farm. 

Some are so constituted that they could bear the loss with equa- 
nimity if they knew it was occasioned by bees from the woods, but 
would be grievously disturbed if they were conscious that it was car- 
ried to the hives of a neighbor. But I h-ive never known a fruit- 
grower made on that plan. 

2nd. Because of a belief that bees are continually moved by a de- 
sire to sting. This is a great mistake. Bees absolutely never volun- 
teer to sting when absent from their hives, but if caught in the hand 
or hair, or otherwise, they will try to sting, of course. But bees are 
tolerably quick in resenting any disturbance that threatens injury to 
their homes, yet with fair discretion they are wonderfully easy to get 
along with. But if I were not familiar with bees I would not kick over 
a live hive in summer time, nor operate a heavy road-scraper on dry, 
stony ground within three or four rods of an apiary, nor hitch a team 
where bees were passing and repassing ( even though I were one of that 
class whom bees never sting), without taking the advice of some one 
skilled in the management of bees. 

3rd. And last, because of a belief that bees do injury to ripe 
fruit. 

There is no question that during times of dearth of nectar in warm 
weather that bees seek to gather the juices of broken fruit, and some 
fruit-growers contend that they actually cut through the skin of the 
grape — some are very positive, aftirming that they know they do — that 
they have actually witnessed the operation. I feel some sympathy for 
this class, since once, though familiar with the arguments against it, I 
was more than half inclined to believe that in some way bees sometimes 
forced open the skin of grapes. For years I have taken great pleasure 
in raising a considerable variety of grapes, and when I sometimes saw 
the bees crowding their heads between the berries of fine, compact 
and apparently perfect bunches of Delawares, and afterwards found 
that many of the berries were sucked dry, my faith in the bees' ina- 
bility weakened greatly. 

Further investigation showed that, while ruptures of the skin of 
the Duchess grape were plainly seen, none were ordinarily evident in 
a ruptured Delaware. In short, I found that grapes of different varie- 
ties varied in their manner of cracking — some cracking lengthwise, and 
others crosswise or diagonally. 

The cracking is, I think, caused by the crowding of the berries 
upon each other, which is induced by their swelling, owing to abund- 



WINTER MEETING. 249 

ant moisture. At least so far as I have observed, the cracking is con- 
fined almost entirely to compact clusters. 

Of the many varieties I have in bearing the work of the bees has 
usually been confined almost exclusively to the Delaware and the 
Lady ; but on account of the wetness of the season, the Duchess and 
the Salem were added to the list last year, and these are the ones to 
which cracking was almost exclusively confined. It was a significant 
fact that the work of the bees was confined to the compact clusters of 
these varieties, while the loose clusters neither cracked nor were vis- 
ited by bees. 

In all these, except the Delaware, the cracks were plainly seen on 
the visible part of the berries. In the Delaware the cracks are out of 
sight, being transverse and near the stem end. 

In July last, the rainfall being so great that more than the usual 
amount of cracking was anticipated, I decided to determine, if pos- 
sible, whether grapes from which bees were excluded, but still left on 
the vines, suffered in any different degree from those to which the bees 
had free access. To shut out the bees paper sacks were used, folded 
over the clusters and pinned. More than a thousand sacks were put 
upon grapes of the thirteen varieties I am about to mention. Many of 
these became ripe early in September, and by the 24th all were ripe 
except Jefferson and lona. 

In the case of the following there was no damage either inside the 
bags or out, viz : The Agawam, Eaton, Eumelau, lona, Lindly, Niagara 
and Ulster. Brighton suffered none in the sacks, little out; the Dia- 
mond, a little in and a little out; the Jefferson, a very little in and the 
same out; the Delaware, Dachess and Salem suffered much in and 
somewhat less out. 

In the case of the three kinds much injured it became constantly 
more evident that the damage to those in the bags was greater than to 
those to which the bees had access. This was especially true of the 
Duchess and the Delaware. So evident was it that the reason of this 
lay in the fact that the juice oozing from the cracked grapes in the 
bags was communicated to contiguous sound grapes, causing weak- 
ness of skin, cracking and incipient decay, that by the middle of the 
month of September I hastened to remove the bags from these varie- 
ties that the bees might gather the juice from the broken grapes. 

To my mind the conclusion is inevitable that not only do bees not 
injure grapes, but that by gathering the juice of cracked ones they 
prevent decay and thereby the destruction of sound grapes. 

E. L. Taylor. 



250 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

DISCUSSION. 

Dr. C. C. Miller — I don't believe there is much good that can come 
from our discussing this paper, but it would do lots ot good if it could 
be laid before the horticultural class. It might be put in our home 
papers or brought up at our farmers' institutes and do good in that 
way. 

Rev. E. T. Abbott — There is one more point that ought to be 
brought out, and that is that secretion of nectar stops as soon as the 
blossom is fertilized, the same as the extra energy of a female animal 
is turned to the production of a new life in reproduction. 

E. R. Root — If no one else does anything about this matter we 
will get out Mr. Taylor's paper in the form of a leaflet and give it away. 

Mr. Abbott— Can't this association do something to prevent the 
spraying of trees while in bloom.! 

R. F. Holterman — We now have in Ontario a law against the 
spraying of trees while in bloom. The outer covering of the fertilizing 
part of blossoms is very tender, and to spray when in bloom, even with 
water, may work an injury, hence those who spiay when the trees are 
in bloom are destroying their own fruit. 

W. Helm — In Ohio the experiment stations are issuing bulletins 
in regard to spraying, and but very little of it is done out of season. 



Thursday, 9 a. m. 

The President called the meeting to order. 

Prayer by Rev. A. F. Smith. 

The President introduced the Secretary of the Illinois State Horti- 
cultural Society, Hon. H. L. Dunlap. 

Our apple crop has brought Missouri and Illinois to the front. We 
are very fortunate this year. In other years when all our orchards 
come to bearing we will have to look for other and greater markets. 
Storage and transportation are great questions, and will become greater. 
Last evening at the hotel ia St. Loui?, where I took supper, they had 
strawberries. In Chicago, string beans, young turnips and other green 
vegetables are on tbe market. So you see, we must compete with the 
products of all climes, and cannot expect high prices except in seasons 
like this. Cold storage in the large cities is important, but expensive. 
The grower must trust to others to care for and sell his products and 
return or pocket his money. We need a good storage plan for the 
grower or a neighbood, so we could hold our crops for profitable prices" 



WINTER MEETING. 



251 



In Illinois we have had good prices, bat the grower does not get the 
fall benefit, for he had to sell. 

We will be very glad to receive your delegates at the Illinois 
Society, and will treat them as well as Illinois people know how. 

President Evans — We are now ready to receive invitations for the 
next meeting and discass them. 

Secretary Goodman— I have here an invitation for the June meet- 
ing from the local society at West Plains. 

We, the undersigned, beg your honorable body, the Missouri State Horticultural So- 
ciety, to hold your summer meeting next June at West Plains, Mo., pledging you our 
hearty support Ijy our presence and as reasonable hotel and railroad rates as can be 



had anywhere. 



Aid Hardware Co. , 

Geo. O. Dougherty, 

John B. Black, 

G. L). Ellecye, 

Geo. T. Lewis, 

H P. W'hlte, 

S. T. Russell, 

T. J. Pitts, 

Wehle Simmons, 

G. H. Garter, 

W. H Odlom&Cc, 

R. M. Hornldy, 

E. M. Paage&Co., 

S. H. Coover, 

John Halsteed, 

Wm. P. Cutler, 

C. V. Crawford, 

Swartz & Horton, 

S. J. Langston Mer, Co. 

Penlck & McCollum, 

Oscar Weller, 

A. J. Spear, 

B. H. Haley, 
B. B. Carter, 
V. P. Wells, 
M. J. Buford, 
V. P. Renfrow, 
T. J. Langston, 
Kansas City Prod. Co. 
Jno. W. Hltt, 
Philip Corgan, 



C. F. Coleman, 
H. G. Woolsey, 
F. J. Moxey, 
0. I. Lee & Co., 
J. W. Martin, 
Wiley Thorne, 
J. E. Springer, 
Livingston & Lives, 
Hill- Whltmere Mer Co. 

D. W. Reese, 
J. L. EUedge, 

S. C. Mlnnebraker, 

F. Ball, 

William Revney, 
L. G. Perry, 
Ed. Coker, 

S. M. Cady, 
CM. Podas, 
Funkhouse & Davis, 

G. C. Marsden&Co., 

B. T. Henry, 
S. J. Helt, 

C. G. Brown, 
Shadburn Bros. , 
A. J. Stephens, 

H. Tlmberman & Co » 
J. T. Outen, 
Dressier, Stous & Co. , 
, West Plains Drug Co., 
James L. McKaney, 
JohnT. Snodgrass, 



To the Honorable, the Missouri State Holtlcultural Society : 

We, the undersigned citizens and fruit-growers of Oregon county, respectfully request 
that your summer meeting next June be held at West Plains, In Howell county. 

Should this request be complied with, we pledge you our attendance during the session, 
and that we will unite with the citizens of West Plains in giving your members in attend- 
ance from other parts of the State a hearty welcome. 

A. P. Campbell, 
H. K. Aid arson, 
H. 0. Mlddleton, 
T. M. Culver, 
J. T. McOormack, 
J. D. Wnkerson. 



C. M. Alderson, 
F. M. Arnold, 
W. C. Paynter,, 
B. Leach, 
L. S. Wilson, 



252 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

liANSAS CiTT, Mo., December 2, 1897. 
John T. Snodgrass, Ksq. , West Plains, Mo. : 

Dear Sir— Referring to your letter to Mr. Washburn, relative to rate to be made by 
our company for the delegates who will desire to attend the meeting of the Fruit-growers' 
Association, you may say that we will make a rate of one fare for the round trip from any 
point on our line to the meeting point. We will, however, desire a list of the names of the 
delegates furnished us, so that we may send each delegate who will pass over our road an 
order on the ticket agent to sell him a ticket for the round-trip at one fare. We desire to 
handle It In this manner rather than to make an open published rate available for the use 
of everybody. I believe the plan has been the one that we have heretofore used, and It en= 
ables us to confine the application of the rates to the legitimate delegates 

Trusting you may be successful In your efforts to get the meeting, I am 

Yours very truly, 

Jame.s J. Fletcher. 

The invitatioD was accepted and West Plains chosen as the place 
for the next meeting. 

Mexico and Moberly asked for the next winter meeting. 



Columbia, Mo. , December 20, 1897. 
Hon. L. A. Goodman, Westport, Mo. : 

My Dear Mr. Goodman— I am sorry that I was not able to attend the Moberly meet- 
ing of the State Horticultural Society. I present an Invitation to the Society to meet at 
Columbia next December. The Board of Curators authorized this invitation to be extended , 
and the President of the University, together with [all the faculties, the officers of the Ex- 
periment Station, and the citizens of Columbia join the Board in tlils most cordial invita- 
tion. I know you will agree wnth me that it will be of benefit to both the members of the 
Society and the Agricultural College and Experiment Station to liave the meeting here. 
There is considerable interest being awakened in horticulture in this section, and your 
meeting here will greatly stimulate It. I hope, therefore, that you can see your way clear 
to favor Columbia for the next winter meeting. 

We are doing everything we can to reach the horticulturists with our short course in 
horticulture, and hope to liave a good attendance. 

With best wishes, I am. Very truly yours, 

H J. Waters, 

Dean and Director. 

Moved and carried that choice of place for winter meeting be left 
to the Executive Committee. 



Columbia, Mo., Dec. 27, 1897. 
Hon. L. A. Goodman, Westport, Mo. : 

Mt Dear Sir— Kindly do all you can to secure the next winter meeting of the State 
Horticultural Society In Columbia. The ..Board of Curators have extended a cordial wel- 
come, and urge that the meeting beheld here. Likewise the President, Director Waters 
and Faculty unite In this request. You know the many advantages of holding a meeting 
here, so 1 will not dwell on them. Very respectfully yours, 

J. M. Stedman. 



WINTER MEETING. 253 

We, the Committee on Flowers and Plants, respectfully submit the following report: 



To Mrs. X. F. Murray, 4 vases of chrysanthemums. 

Henry Schnell, 2 vases of "mums." 

Mrs. II. V. EstUl, 1 orange tree and other plants 

Mrs. W. H. H. Day, collection of plants 

Mrs. Chris. Gootgon, palm and plants 

Total 



$1 00 


50 


1 50 


15 00 


2 00 



20 00 



Sam'l Millkk, Chairman, 
Mrs. A. Nelson, 
Mrs. A. Chandler, 

Committee. 



We, your Committee on Finance, have examined the report of your Treasurer and 
find vouchers for each and every account as stated in his report, and report correct In 
every particular. D. A. Hobnett, Chairman, 

N. F. Murray, 
J. T. Snodgrass. 



C. C. Bell, Committee on Sugar Beet — At Marceline one year ago 
I was appointed to investigate the sugar beet industry. I took the 
resolutions to Canton, Ohio, to President-elect McKinley. He was 
very busy, but he was very much interested in the step this Society 
had taken. He read the resolutions over carefully. He said he was 
glad we had started the matter, promised to do all he could through 
the Depaitmeot of Agriculture and made an appointment for me to 
see him at Washington after his inauguration. Accordingly, I went to 
Washington and had an interview with him on the 8th of March. I 
found him just as much interested as at Canton. He introduced me 
to his new Secretary of Agriculture, Mr. Wilson, and told him to do 
all he could in Lhe matter. Mr. Wilson sent seven hundred pounds of 
sugar beet seed to the State. 

I distributed this seed to six thousand persons throughout the 
State. A great many samples of the beets were sent to Washington 
for analysis, and at the right time a bulletin will be issued giving the 
analysis and other valuable information. They can then see what we 
can C50. I believe that twelve per cent is the lowest that can be profit- 
ably worked. Some of the samples may not go as high as twelve per 
cent, but others go far beyond that ; some as high as seventeen per 
cent of sugar. In some localities it can be made a success. I am 
more than ever convinced that we can produce sugar in Missouri as 
well as they can in Germany. Our land is only one fifth as valuable in 
money as theirs, yet there they make it a success. We have the soil, 
the climate, the people, everything but the information. I venture to 



2Z4: STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

say that a majority of the people of this country do Dot know that 
sugar can be made from beets that can be grown right on their own 
farms. If we can add this to the industries of the State, it will be a 
big addition to the resources of the farm. 

All this has been done without the expense of a cent to this Society. 
Every county has had samples, some as high as sixty-five in one county. 
In conoection with this work of the Department of Agriculture, our 
State Experiment Station is doing good work along this line. They 
will do better work in the near future. 



QUESTIONS AND SUGGEGTIONS. 

We often hear a question asked or a suggestion made that seems 
<iuite simple at first thought, but when followed up and properly an- 
swered or acted on, may mean a great deal and benefit some one or 
many, largely. 

There are some questions that are being asked quite often recently, 
such as, will it pay me to start in the fruit business now ? Will it pay 
to plant an orchard in Missouri? Would you advise planting small 
fruit on a large scale at a certain point ? Will it pay to plant peaches 
on a large scale in the Ozarks? Do you think the fruit business will be 
overdone ? And many others of a similiar nature. But the most import- 
ant one, and one that is the key to the entire situation is, how cm we 
bring about a better distribution of the products of our fruit farms ? 
When we have succeeded in placing these products where they are 
wanted, we have solved the problems and answered all the above ques- 
tions. Can we do it 1 Yes. 

I just had a letter from a gentlemauL in one of the western states 
east of the Rockies, who said he went into the fruit-growing business 
on the Pacific coast in the earlier days, and when his fruits were ready 
to ship, he could find no market that would pay him to ship to ; so 
said he, I got out the best I could, just walked out. His natural de- 
sire to grow fruit leads him now to want to come to Missouri to make 
a fruit farm. 

Compare the condition on the Pacific coast then and now, and we 
find that then there was no system while they could grow fine fruits ; 
each one thought himself smarter than the other fellow and sought what 
he thought the best market. The result in most cases was, they all sent 
to the same market, and the market was like the old nigger's bank, 
" done broke long ago, sir," and many a fruit-grower who was a success 
at growing was compelled to walk out of the business, Many of thein. 



WINTER MEETING. 255 

however, who were able fmanclally, held on to the business, because 
at that time there was nothing else to go to. The gold fever had sub- 
sided, cattle and sheep had exhausted the pastures, and wheat had 
ceased to be a paying crop. Here this same question stared them in 
the face, and necessity, the mother of invention came, to the rescue. 

They said we must uaderstand each other better, " we must grow 
our fruit better," " we must learn how to handle it better," "grade it 
better," " pack it better," and we must appeal to the transportation 
companies for quicker, surer and cheaper rates to the market. One 
man or woman could not do all this alone. It was necessary that all 
should take a hand, and all were willing because they had come to see 
the necessity that something must be done. Taey realized that their 
climate, soil and other conditions were most favorable for the produc- 
tion of fruit, and that was about all the thing they could do at that 
time that would return them any profit. The final result was a thorough 
organization and cooperperation, and now hundreds and thousands of 
cars of fruits are sent from the Pacific coast to all parts of the United 
States and to many foreign countries. 

Xow, allow me to ask another question and suggest an answer : 
Where are we fruit-growers of Missouri and the other middle-western 
states ? We are just at that point on the road to success or failure, 
where the fruit-growers of the Pacific coast were when'the mother of 
invention came to their rescue. We have come to the place where the 
road forks, the one is dim, crooked and full of obstructions, the other 
is broad, straight and smooth ; the one may lead us to success, but the 
other will take us straight to failure. It will require much effort on 
our part to follow the one, but to go the other will be easy sailing. 

What the people of the Pacific coast have done was not accom- 
plished in a day or a year, nor without many sad failures and discour. 
agements, but it has taken long years of work and worry, and meeting 
and discussing, and planning and resolving, and that by some of the 
brightest minds, and yet they do not claim that their system is perfect, 
but so much so that their business is fairly remunerative. Their pro- 
ducts are known in most of the markets of the world and are always 
in good demand at fair prices. 

Now, I do not claim that we can do just as they have done, nor 
do I wish to discourage any of our Missouri fruit-growers. I have said 
that organization and co-operation gave them success. May it not do 
the same for us if we go rightly at it? We have tried and failed. Did 
they not do the same many times ? It is true, conditions and surround- 
ings are not the same, but it is true also that we have many advantages 
over them. In the first place we are at least four days nearer the 



256 STATE HOKTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

markets of the world than they are. Oar leading product, apples, the 
money maker, is more staple and is not effected in any market by any 
quantity of their products. I am not urging the members of this 
Society or the fruit-growers of Missouri to any definite line of action^ 
but offer thesa suggestions to set them thinking. It is certainly well 
known to every commercial fruit-grower in Missouri after the last year's 
experience that we are more or less at the mercy of the transportation 
companies, commission men, brokers and so on, and that a change in 
the condition of things would be very welcome. Let us think about it» 

J. C. Enans, Harlem, Mo. 



DISCUSSION. 

Mr. Iifelson spoke of the importance of the railroads in building 
up the country. 

J. C. Evans — Some of the railroads are all right. We are getting 
terms with our railroads, and I suppose Mr. Nelson is doing the same 
thing. Some of them are willing to do what is right, but when we get 
across the Mississippi river, I say we are at the mercy of the railroads. 
For instance, $500 freight for a car-load of peaches to Boston ! Where 
are the profits *? You had almost as well dump them. We are at the 
mercy of the brokers, commission men and everybody else who wants 
peaches. Missouri and her borders was about the only place where 
peaches were to be had the past season, and every man came to make 
something. One man actually stole a car-load of peaches and got 
away with them. 

Question — Did the Osark Association do any good f 

Mr. Evans — I can't say tbat they did. They were not sufficiently 
organized. 

O. C. Bell — I suggest that a guardian be appointed for the man 
who lost that car load of peaches. We are sometimes to blame our- 
selves that we do not get the treatment from the railroads, commission 
men and others, that we think we ought to have. When I began to 
ship I charged every little mishap to the railroads. If you can show 
the railroad men that you have or can make business for them, they 
will generally meet you half way and get that business, and so would 
you if you were in their shoes. There are always two sides to a thing. 
Let us be candid and fair in the matter. Millions of apples would have 
rotted in the State had it not been for men like Mr. Nelson and myself, 
who bought them and often shipped at a loss, but I do not complain. 
We have to take the chances of the business in which we are engaged. 



WINTER MEETING. 25T 

I believe everj^body ought to know his business and learn it well. I 
believe the man who makes himself a jack at all trades will fail and 
come up here and howl. You don't make one tree grow all kinds of 
fruits. 

Mr. Dubois— Southern Illinois is, perhaps, better organized than 
any other part of the West. Every point has a local organization, and 
these local organizations are combined into a general organization. 
When you are properly organized, you will be successful in your ship- 
ments. In regard to commission men, there is no other paper which 
has drawn the line on them as closely as I have done in the Fruit 
Growers' Journal. When I learo of one who has wronged a shipper, 
I publish him. They have sued me, but I beat them. I will not adver- 
tise for a house that I do not believe is honest. There is just as much 
trickery among fruit-growers, packers and shippers as there is among 
commission t-uen, 

Sam. Miller — I propose the name of Dr. Dubois of the Fruit 
Growers' Journal as an honorary member of this Society. Carried 
unanimously. 

Mr. Dubois — This is very unexpected to me — at least it was unex- 
pected until I suggested to Judge Miller that he offer my name as an 
honorary member. I have noticed that something good always comes 
to the Society which makes me an honorary member. 

J. 0. Evans — In response to Mr. Bell, I said that we are at the 
mercy of the transportation companies. Where they have done a cer- 
tain thing they succeed in getting some consideration from those com- 
panies. The people of Missouri will be at the mercy of the transpor- 
tation companies until they do just what the people of the Pacific 
coast have done. What we want is thorough organization and co-ope- 
ration, and then. we will not be at the mercy of those corporations. 
We have studied, planned and worked for years to grow fruit, and now 
we have got it ; we don'c know what to do with it. 



A YEAR'S WORK ON A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE FARM. 

Mr. .President, Ladies and Gentlemen — To do this subject justice 
and go into details would make volumes. Thus we shall not attempt 
to discuss how to grow, handle and market the various crops. There 
are few pursuits of life that require more constant work, care, atten- 
tion and planning than market gardening, combined with fruit-growing, 
to make it a success; and unless one has a liking for it our advice is 
H— 17 



258 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

not to embark in it. Though the work is never ceasing, it is not so 
hard and much more pleasant than in many other occupations, as each 
day, week and month brings us in touch with something new in the 
wonderful works of nature ; and thus the work never becomes mo- 
notinous. It also differs from general farming where one or two crops 
are depended on to supply the ready cash, for the market gardner has 
something to market the year around. 

He shquld always have his "thinking cap" on, as the planting, cul- 
tivating, succession, harvesting, marketing and rotation of crops must 
be well studied. He must be honest and straightforward in all his 
dealings, and last, but not least, he must secure and haul all the manure 
he can, the more the better, including the use of some of the commer- 
cial fertilizers. 

We will now mention some of the various products we should 
have to market during the year, and some of the numerous things to 
be done during each month. The time of operations, etc., changing as 
to location north or south. 

Let us begin with the present month, December, haviug our straw- 
berries mulched and everything in snug shape for winter, we will at- 
tend the meeting of the Missouri State Horticultural Society and add 
something to the stock of knowledge. We should have to market 
this month celery, lettuce, parsley, cabbage, salsify, parsnips, turnips, 
beets, carrots, soup-bunches, Irish and sweet potatoes, onions, etc. ; 
also apples, unless they were at picking time. 

If all the manure was not hauled, spread and plowed under before 
the ground froze, it must be finished and the plowing done the first 
thaw-out. 

Hot-beds need attention, a few added ; a succession of lettuce 
plants coming on, those in hot-i>eds and cold frames need good cover- 
ing during severe cold weather. The green-house, if you have one, 
needs daily attention, and by the way it is almost indispensable, as it is 
just the place to prepare and pack vegetables and do the transplanting 
into flats during bad weather. What we said about December will 
also apply to January and February. In addition, blackberries, rasp- 
berries, gooseberries, currants and grapevines can be trimmed during 
warm days, cuttings made and fruit trees pruned, if you believe in 
winter pruning. 

There are a few hot-beds to be added during January, and by the 
latter part of February, as many more made and planted as can be 
taken care of during zero nights, but no more. Early cabbage and 
cauliflower must be started. Out-door gardening can often be done 
during the last days of February, and early peas, beets, spinach, kale 



WINTER MEETING. . 259 

■onion seed and sets, lettuce, radish can be planted. If this can not be 
done in February, the first chance in March must be utilized. 

Cold frames must be started by the first of March, the hotbeds 
should all be made and planted by the 15th to 20th, and those that are 
cleared of the first crop overhauled and planted to a second. Potatoes 
must be planted for early crop. Rubbish removed from the orchards 
and berry patches, vineyard, etc., so cultivation can commence early. 
The hot-ber?s will need a great deal of attention as the weather gets 
warmer, and watering, airing, thinning and transplanting must be closely 
looked after. A succession of the different plants and vegetables must 
be attended to and kept up, tomato, eggplant, peppers, etc., started, 
celery, salsify and parsnip sown outdoors. The remaining winter 
vegetables cleaned up and sold as there will be little demand for them 
during April. 

The latter is one of the busiest months. The strawberries must 
have the mulch removed, berry and vegetable plants dug and sold, 
new plantings made, replanting of trees and vines, the continuation 
preparing ground, seeding, cultivating, transplanting, etc., must be 
pushed, cabbage and cauliflower transplanted to the open ground, more 
cold frames added. Hot-beds, as they become empty, overhauled and 
sown or planted to 2nd and 3rd crop. Sweet potatoes bedded. Vege- 
tables grown under glass and early vegetable plants are being marketed 
with increased sales, asparagus and rhubarb will be coming in by the 
latter part of the month as well as other outdoor grown. Spinach, kale, 
lettuce, onions, radishes, etc., by the first of May. Spraying the fruit 
trees and vines with Bordeaux mixture must be done before the buds 
open, cultivation begun and kept up. Daring May the marketing of 
early truck continues, adding early cabbage, cauliflower, kohl-rabi, 
beets, peas and early potatoes by the latter part of month. 

The vegetable plant trade must not be neglected and a succession 
kept up. Tomatoes and sweet potatoes planted to open ground. 
Melons, cucumbers, butter beans, string beans, corn, etc., planted with 
succession, plantings to follow at intervals. Currants and gooseberries 
will be ready for market before the month is gone. Boxes and crates 
must be on hand. Summer pruning of trees and vines must be done, 
also spraying the trees with a wash made of soft soap, lime and car- 
bolic acid (a second application first of August). June will keep us 
busy with the strawberries, cherries and raspberries to market, in ad- 
dition to the vegetables, of which there are early cabbage, potatoes, 
cauliflower, peas, beans, beets, lettuce, radish, onions, etc. Cultivation 
must be continued, and no weeds allowed to get a start. A succession 
of cabbage must be coming on, and the main crop planted. Celery 



260 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

may be planted by the latter part of the month. The old strawberry 
beds manured and plowed under, and later planted to cabbage, celery, 
beans, cucumbers, corn, etc. Beds that have borne the tirst crop must 
be put in shape and cultivated. Grapes need a second and third 
spraying, and summer pruning must be done. The backberries ripen 
by July 1, then follow apricots, early apples and plums, and in vegeta- 
bles we have corn, tomatoes and butter beans to add to the list. The 
celery crop must be planted, also late cabbage for winter use. Turnips 
sown by the 25th to 30th. The refuse and wormy fruit picked up 
clean and fed to the hogs until the close of the season. 

In August there is little planting to do, some lettuce and radishes 
sown for early fall use, also spinach and winter radish. The onion 
crop and sets must be harvested. Sweet potatoes and egg plant and 
melons are ready to market, with apples, peaches and plums in the 
fruit line. 

Hot-bed pits need cleaning out, sashes repaired and painted, and 
the growing crops closely cultivated, which we need no more by the mid- • 
die of September. Apples marketed and used up by being made into 
cider and vinegar, or evaporated as they ripen. Pears and peaches are 
to market and the grape crop must be disposed of. Potatoes are to be 
dug unless already done. Sweet potatoes must be dug and stored away 
before heavy frost falls. By first of October, there will be a demand 
for pickled goods, such as mangoes, horseradish, cauliflower, green to- 
matoes, cucumbers, fresh and out of brine, cabbage, onions, etc. Kraut 
to make, celery to handle and bank, a few hot-beds to be started. The 
apple crop sold or stored. The celery crop must be housed before 
heavy freezing. November is the time for cleaning up and get ready 
for winter. All fall vegetables must be taken care of and put in shape 
so they can be gotten at any time during the winter. Hot-beds made 
and taken care of. 

The asparagus and rhubarb need a good dressing of manure, and 
forked or plowed under. Manure hauled to the fields and plowed un- 
der. The rubbish cleaned away from the fruit trees to keep the mice 
and rabbits away. 

Fuel supply laid in. The tools all taken care of and repaired. 
The ice-house cleaned out and ready for the first crop of ice ; and if 
we are anxious for more work than suggested here, it can always be 
found on a fruit and vegetable farm at all times of the year. 

Henry Schnell, Glasgow, Mo. 



WINTER MEETING. 261 



DISCUSSION. 

C. M. Williams — I indorse every word Mr. Schnell has said. I 
am a market gardener myself and I know that Mr. Schnell is a good 
one. 

W. M. Bomberger, Iowa — The paper suggests a mixed industry, 
when all Missouri is talking one apple and one or two kinds of peaches. 
I think we are all making mistakes. If I had to plant 160 acres of ap- 
ples I would not plant all Ben Davis. I have twenty acres of vine- 
yard, twenty acres of berries and ten acres of plums. In Missouri I 
would want some peaches as well as some Ben Davis apples. Fruit- 
growing for profit don't depend on shipping. Study your home mar- 
ket. This year I sold about 500 bushels of berries in my local market. 
Next year I will sell 1,000 bushels, but I don't depend upon the rail- 
roads. I send out my berries in wagons as far as thirty miles some- 
times. When they know my berries are coming they don't buy shipped 
berries. 

Mr. Dubois — I have official information of the fact that the apple 
which Eve gave to Adam was a Ben Davis, hence the fall of man. 

Mr. Chandler — Mr. Bomberger says there is money in grapes at 2 
cents per pound. We got much less than 2 cents for grapes sent to 
Kansas City. Every thing was there on the market. It was first 
dumped on the market and then dumped into the river. We should 
develop our home market. 

Mr. Reed, Wis. — There is considerable interest in horticulture in 
Wisconsin, but more in market gardening than in fruitgrowing. This 
is the result of our cold climate. I represent one of the best agricultural 
and horticultural papers in the country — the Farmers' Review of Chi- 
cago. 

Mr. Dubois — The Farmers' Review is a supplement to the Fruit- 
Growers' Journal. 

Mr. Schnell — I have been bothered very little with borers. When 
we wash the trees about the the first of May and the first of August, 
we are careful to remove any that may be in the trees. We seldom 
lose a tree. The wash keeps the bark of the trees nice and clean. 
People ask me what I do to my trees to make them so nice and fresh. 
It is the wash that does it. 

Mr. Fell — It is very important to keep grass and weeds from the 
base of the tree ; they harbor insects and mice. 

Prof. Whitten— If tree washes are made with one-fifth skim milk 
to four-fifths water, they will stick to the tree much longer. I think 
the white color will keep the heat from the trunk of the tree. I recom- 



262 



STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



mend a wash made of two pounds copper sulphate, one spoonful car- 
bolic acid to each bucketful; add enough lime to make a thick wash. 
This is applied with a brush. 



REPORT OF AWARDING COMMITTEE ON FRUITS. 

MOBEELY, Mo., December 9, 1897. 
Your Committee would respectfully submit the following report on premiums awarded, 
according to the rules and instructions given by Secretary Goodman : 



Lot No. 1— N. F. Murray, Oregon. 



2— A. S. Feld, Marshall $1 25 

" 3— A. Branson, New Sharon, la 2 00 

We wish to make special mention of this exhibit, which consisted of 20 seedling vari- 
tles ; some of this sum very promising. 

Lot No. 4— L. A. Goodman, West port $3 75 

" 5— A. K. Dorsey, Moberly 3 00 

6— G. N. KatllfC, Moberly 2 00 

" 7— J. Lynn, Moberly 40 

8— S. F. Mason, Moberly 2 20 

9— J. P. Slnnrock, Moberly 160 

10— L. A. Cunningham, Moberly 75 

" 11— Geo. Gutchkunst, Moberly 80 

12— W. H. Westf all , Moberly 1 20 

" 13— M. Y. Buchanan, Moberly 75 

" 14— G. M. Dulaney, Moberly 25 

" 15 -J. W. Dorsey, Moberly 3 60 

16- Jas. Jolly, Middle Grove 180 

17— G. B. Skinner, Cairo 3 OO 

18— J McMahlll, Moberly 2 00 

" 19— D. A. Robnett, Columbia 4 00 

" 20— R. E. Bailey, Fulton 3 0& 

21— J. H. Marlon, Fulton 50 

22— Francis Kelly, Moberly 100 

" 23— P. D. Qulsenburg, Moberly 2 50 

24— B. W. Halllday, Moberly ISO 

25— P. J. Dorsey, Cairo 2 20 

•' 26— B. R. Boucher, Cairo 2 20 

" 27— Robt. Mathews, Cairo .. 1 40 

28— A. Z. Moore, Cedar Gap 150 

29— C. C. Bell, Boonville 2 CO 

" 30— Sam Slnnrock, Gorln 3 00 

31— D. U. Blnbaker, New Lebanon 25 

" 32— G. H. Shepherd, Lamonte ' 3 80 

" 33— J. H. Mouses, Beaman 2 50 

34— Jos. Gamble, Brookfield 2 50 

35— J. T. Snodgrass, West Plains 2 00 

' ' 37— D . B . Moore , Macon 7» 

" 38— G. W. Lemsley, Mexico 2 60- 

39— E. B. Guthrie, Moberly 3 20 

" 40— W. G. Gano, Parkvllle 4 5& 

41-G. T. Odor, Holt 6 00 

" 42— A. Nelson, Lebanon 4 00 

43— Ed. Knight, Dixon 3 50 

44— T. L. Lewis, (;uba. 2 50 

" 45— L. Gelger, Boonville 75 

46— C. H. Dutcher, Warrensburg 1 2& 

" 47— Barry County Society -. 160 

48— Sam Miller, Bluflfton 2 00» 



WINTER MEETING. 263 

Lot No. 49— R. J. J'.agby. New Haven $1 25 

50— x\rk. State Society :•< 00 

" 51— R. P. Ralson, Cairo .' '-iS 

" 52— D. G. Day, (Jalro 50 

53— J. 0. Kvans, Cairo 50 

We And an exhibit of potatoes from Wisconsin consisting of 98 plates— 30 seedlings of 
this season, 14 seedlings of last season. Among the most promising varieties we find the 
following, which seem to be worthy of trial In Missouri : 

Mills Prize, Great Dlnld, Enormous, Rural New Yorker Xo. 2, Wilson, first choice; for 
early, Early Michigan; Read's Karly Pinkeye, Maule's Early Thoroughbred. 

We would recommend the payment of $10 as a premium on this potato exhibit, paya- 
ble to L. H. Read, Grand Rapids, Wis. 

J. \V . Stantox, Illinois, Chairman. 

Report adopted. 



THE KEIFPER AND OTHER VARIETIES OF PEARS. 

The popularity of the KeiflFer is owing mainly to its ease of trans- 
plantiDg, quickness of growth, prolific and early bearing, but it is not 
altogether free from blight, as was claimed for it. Being of the rankest 
growth, the more care should be exercised to plant the trees in situa- 
tions where this can be prevented. 

The place to plant the Garber, and in fact, all other varieties of 
pair trees, would be on well-drained sites. Small crops can be grown 
among the trees, especially such as will mature in the fore part of the 
season; when not planted to any crop a shallow plowing should be 
given in May. A week or ten days after the ground may be harrowed, 
and later the weeds and grass may be cut with the mower, which will 
answer for mulch. 

It has been our practice always to. head the pear very low ; the 
Garber and Keiffer require this more than others ; the rampant growth 
and extreme brittleness of wood will not sustain the weight of fruit. 

The Duchess needs much pruning, as also the Clairgeau, which 
needs the sun to perfect and color its fruit. 

Thinning is of the greatest importance ; the imperfect fruit should 
be removed from the tree. 

The varieties we should plant are Clapp's Favorite, Bartlett, 
Duchess, D'Anjou, Flemish Beauty, Howell, Winter Nelis, Clairgeau, 
KeifiFer, Bonne Louise de Jersey, for commercial use; for home use, 
would add Doyenne d' Ete, Rosteejer, Tyson and Seckel. 

J. A. DusKES, Weston, Mo. 



PEAR CULTURE. 

There is an opening for the intelligent pear cnlturist in many parts 
of the United States. There is not a one hundredth part as many pear 
trees growing in this country as there are apples. Little attention has 



264 STATE HORTICULTURAL, SOCIETY. 

been given to pear growing. For these reasons and for" others, the 
man who makes a special study of pear culture, and who goes into 
pear growing intelligently and judiciously has a good opportunity for 
success. 

Pears can be grown nearly as cheaply per barrel as apples, and 
they usually sell nearly twice as high. Growers who have succeeded 
with apple orchards may not succeed so easily with pear orchards be- 
cause they have not given the pear culture the same attention, but 
where the same attention is given, and the same knowledge secured, 
the necessities of the pear, the selection of varieties, the location and 
soil closely studied, there is no doubt that pear growing will be much 
more profitable. 

SOIL FOR PEARS. 

Clay soil is considered best for pear culture, and still it should not 
be too tenacious and sticky. A pear orchard will not thrive so well on 
any soil that has not a clay subsoil. Next to a friable clay loam, a 
gravel loam is most desirable. A light sandy soil is the least desirable 
of any, and yet pears can be grown on sandy soil. 

Standard pears can be planted twenty to thirty feet apart accord- 
ing to circumstances and habits of growth. If planted thirty feet 
apart, dwarf pears can be planted between the rows each way. I pre- 
fer a standard pear for general orchard culture, for the reason that 
they require less fertility and cultivation, and for the farther reason 
that they are longer lived and make larger and more permanent trees. 

When the question came up for a vote, however, before the 
Western New York Horticultural Society, we found that the dwarf 
pear was the favorite for orchard planting or for garden. Dwarf pears 
have the advantage of coming into earlier bearing. The dwarf pear 
is not short lived. It requires more pruning and more attention than 
the standard pear. Many varieties do better on the dwarf pear than 
on the standard. 

I should not locate a pear orchard or any other orchard on a low 
piece of ground. I should locate it on a hillside. The pear is easily 
transplanted. I transplant several thousand every spring, and they 
do not lose, on an average, one out of one hundred trees. Pear trees 
come into bearing earlier than the apple. 

MARKETING PEAKS. 

"In what packages do you market yours? " 

"I always use a bushel keg, which costs 15 cents each. I sort my 
fruit into first, second and culls. The culls I sell from the wagon in 
the local market, at from 25 cents to 50 cents per bushel. The culls 



WINTER MEETING. 265 

comprise all the wormy fruit, the knotty specimens, the small and the 
braised. I allow no wormy or knotty fruit to go into the first or 
second grades." 

COLD STOKAGE. 

"What has been your success in keeping pears in cold storage f 
"I have kfept Bartletts four weeks in a room kept cold with ice. It 
was profitable to do so, but it would not have paid to have kept them 
there longer. I rented a cold storage house for this purpose. I did 
not have pears enough to fill the cold room, therefore it cost me 50 
cents per keg to store them there for one month. Had I been able to 
fill the cold room completely, it would not have cost me over 15 cents. 
The Bartletts went to market after being removed from the cold room 
in splendid condition. If I had sold as soon as picked, I should have 
accepted 60 cents a bushel, whereas I received $2.25, after having 
stored them a month. Another year's experience might not have re- 
sulted so profitably." 



DISCUSSION ON PEARS. 

Polster Bros., Wright City, Mo. — We planted a pear orchard which 
consisted of about 1,200 trees ; about 900 were KeiflFer, the balance were 
part Garber, Bartlett, Duchess, Howell, Clapp's Favorite, Flemish 
Beauty, Smith's Hybrid, Lawson, Le Oonte, Sheldon, etc., etc. The 
trees all did well the first year and second year. The third year some 
blighted, but not of KeifiFer nor Garber, and Keififer were replaced where 
others died, and Keitfer bore in three years from planting out a fair crop. 
Other varieties kept dying, and we kept replacing withKeiffer, until we 
now have nearly all Keififer in orchard. In 1896 other varieties blighted 
so bad that we got discouraged with them. So we used the ax, cut them 
off and grubbed them out, even trees that were not so bad effected, and 
replaced with Keiffer. Think if we never would have planted anything 
but Keiffer and Garber we would have never had any blight on our 
place. We are now losing some every year, even of Keiffer. 

Our first orchard was planted out in 1887 ; three years ago we 
gathered 1,500, two years ago 700, and last year 500 bushels. Only 
about one-half of trees bore last year; the fruit was good, but drouth 
effected it some this last year. 

We think the Keiffer pear is among pears what the Ben Davis is 
among apples, but it is thought the quality of the Keiffer is much bet- 
ter on some soils than on others, and then they must be picked at the 
right time and ripened in the right temperature to bring them to per- 
fection that is nearly equal to Bartlett in flavor. We last year wrapped 



26(5 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

several hundred bushels and put up in 40-pound boxes, and they sold 
for the same as California pears brought in St. Louis market. We 
regard the Garber next to Keiffer. 

1?. F. Murray — The Keiffer comes in later than the Bartlett and 
other pears, and does not have to coqapete with them. If kept till 
ripe, it is fine for all culinary purposes and fairly good for eating. It 
is ihe most money-making pear we have. A friend sold $400 worth 
from 27 trees on one-half acre of ground. It is a fine ornamental and 
shade tree also. I think it better than shade trees that bear only 
leaves. 

Secretary Dunlap of 111. — Personally I have not had very much 
experience with the Keiffer pear. When I planted my small pear or- 
chard I was afraid to plant the Keiffer, as so much had been said 
against its quality. I am now very much pleased with it; it is a good 
bearer; it comes when pears are scarce; it is of very much better 
quality than I had supposed. I have tasted them and they are equal 
to any California pear I ever tasted. I have never known the Keiffer 
to blight on my place, but I know instances where it has blighted. It 
is much less subject to blight than other varieties. The Garber has 
blighted some. It is fine looking and earlier than Keiffer; but I am 
not as favorably impressed with it as with the Keiffer. 

Mr. Stanton — I have an orchard of 2,000 pear trees. I undertook 
to keep that number alive, but I find it a big contract. They are now 
cut all to pieces with the San Jose scale. In my vicinity we had no 
blight on the Keiffer the past season. Mine have not blighted, but 
others have. I think one notable feature of the blight is that it was 
nearly always found on flat, close, compact land, such as post oak flats 
and marl clays. Where water is allowed to stand and evaporate, I 
don't believe a pear tree will grow. I want to add a word of warning 
to parties who are growing Keiffer pears. It will set too many fruits, 
and if you don't thin Ihem you will not have good fruit. They will 
set twice too many; they will have no flavor. It will become of bad 
repute in the market. A Keiffer must be picked before it is ripe if 
you would have it of good quality. 

Mr. Langston said he had 800 pear trees on low land with gravelly 
sub-soil, well drained; they had never blighted. 

Mr. Stanton — The Keiffer stands well till it gets six or seven years 
old. 

Mr. Culp — I have a pear orchard of 15 acres ranging from high 
land to flat gumbo. I have no blight even on my older Keiffer trees. 
LeConte dies, Bartlett dies. The Keiffer this year was full of fine-sized, 
highly colored, beautiful fruit. They will stay on the tree till Novem- 



WINTER MEETING. 267 

ber. When left on late it makes a better pear than when picked early. 
They need some thinning, bnt if the trees are well pruned they hold 
up in size. 1 cut back very much — one-half or two-thirds ot the pre- 
vious season's growth. I don't cultivate at all. 

Mr. Murray — 1 have seen Keiffer blight on high land well drained. 
Where I cut scions I had blight and there only. I would not let a 
man cut my pears back. 

Sam Miller — I generally cut back some in the top. I thin my 
Keiffers when half-grown and again later. Then I pick the fruit at 
the proper time. Even the thinnings become fit to cook. An over- 
loaded Keiffer produces fruit not fit to eat. 



HORTICULTURE IN SCHOOLS. 

The man who plants an orchard should not be discouraged as long 
as the trees make a steady growth. The same principle is true of any 
undertaking in life. It is when the blight kills the trees; it is when in- 
sects or frosts destroy the fruits ; it is when wicked and designing men 
scheme to destroy the virtue of unselfish plans in life that we lose 
hope and murmur. 

The cause of shaping horticultural knowledge so as to fit it for the 
school-rooms of Missouri may today look like a tender plant, but it has 
roots deep and strong, and they are imbedded in the fertile soil. This 
idea is dear to, the true, and the brave, and the honest. Here every 
patriotic son and daughter of Missouri will be sure to find an object 
worthy of love; a movement fraught with far-reaching results ; a study 
that enlarges and ennobles as you pureue it until it draws you into 
sympathy with the future prosperity of the rising generation and the 
material advancement of the State. 

To place the study of horticulture in an attractive and tangible 
form so that it can be studied by our youth and consequently leave the 
desired impression on the minds of the future generations is an under- 
taking that has no place for the selfish, greedy elements that are so 
characteristic of this age. 

We know it takes time, money and hard work to awaken and en- 
gage the thought of a great people on any subject; but there is no 
want of any of these on the part of the friends of this movement. 

The lists of questions on horticulture sent out annually to our 
fruit-growers, scientists and school teachers, and the answers received 
from them are indicative of the sympathy they have in this movement. 
We have no fears but that we can reach the understanding and win the 



268 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. . 

respect of the well-meaniDg people of this State. The difiQculty we an- 
ticipate is the one we encounter in every measure of this kind. It is 
that the voice of the people will not be heard. I shall never forget 
the difficulty we had in getting our pure butter bill incorporated into 
the laws of the State. 

So, I am afraid, if the demand be made that a hand book on hor- 
ticultural knowledge be taught in such public schools of this State as 
desire it, the wish of the people will be denied or granted just as the 
design of the politician is served. I hope I shall be mistaken in this. 
How expensive it is to establish a Horticultural Department in the 
State University before it is allowed in the primary departments of the 
State schools. Not one can attend it there where 1,000 should attend 
it here. But amid all these irregularities, I entertain the hope when 
the time comes, as it soon will come, when horticulture and similar 
studies will seek to displace ancient geography, mythology, the dead 
languages and dead faiths of the dead past, the door will be ajar and 
our boys and girls will be allowed to study by the light of nature's 
sunshine that which will aid them in raising the fruit foods of the peo- 
ple and beautifying the homes of the future. As I travel over this 
State and see the expensive mistakes made in fruit-growing by even 
those who can read Latin and apply geometry, as I see the want of 
horticultural knowledge in the illy ornamented homes and public 
grounds, as I think of my own mistakes caused by my inadequate in- 
formation at the time I set out my fruit and laid off my grounds, I am 
persuaded to toil by night and by day to push the work of collecting 
the necessary facts and dressing them in an attractive style for the 
school children of our State. This subject needs your thought and 
friendship. It is the best work you ever undertook. 

How very different from one who does not know, will a man or 
woman who is familiar with the best varieties of trees, flowers and 
fruits, who knows about the best locations and modes of cultivation, 
who is acquainted with the terms used in horticulture and floriculture, 
who can point out the fungus growths and injurious insects — I say, 
how different will he go about developing the orchard resources of his 
State or beautifying his own grounds. 

What a lost world the whole subject of horticulture is to a soul 
that knows nothing of it. What a source of constant blessing it is to 
him who seeks among its hidden beauties and intelligently holds con- 
verse with the charming life and beauty with which nature has clothed 
the plant and flower and fruit. 

If a book treating upon these things is illustrated with the fine 
cuts used by the artists of today, the whole subject will be charmingly 



WINTER MEETING. 269 

attractive to the eye as well as to the understanding. of both pupil and 
teacher. There can be no book written on all the varied subjects that 
man must master that can be compared in beauty or usefulness to it. 
Nature's studies are the child's delightful studies and none approach 
or combine the beautiful and useful quite so closely as does the study 
of horticulture. Today this Society is taking the initiatory steps to 
collect, define, illustrate, classify and arrange for the school-room those 
facts that every truly educated son and daughter of Missouri must 
know. 

Our education always has been and always will be sadly neglected 
without this knowledge. No man should ever be entrusted to map 
out the future of Missouri without it. Ob, that we might live in the 
sunshine of true knowledge and plan for the future not dwell in the 
past. Oh, that our teachers would teach the needs of the age in which 
we live, instead of turning out boys and girls into the world who know 
so little of the real life and heart of everything about them. 

Our school-rooms should be in touch with the living present in- 
stead of lingering in the cemeteries of the dead theories of unscien- 
tific ages. How very unfit our boys and girls are to possess the fields 
for horticulture when they leave our schools. How little they know. 
How failure will strew their pathway with disappointment, wreck and 
ruin. They will censure, they will heap reproaches upon the State that 
fails to educate them. They do it because disappointment and despair 
follow their efforts. I would not say it if I did not know it. If there 
is any virtue in us who see these conditions, we will lay the founda- 
tion on solid rock. The rock is education. Our duty is plain. As 
long as we live let us labor to bring about that freedom which educa- 
tion alone can give to those into whose hands we will soon entrust the 
destinies of the grandest State in the Union. 

WHAT HAS BEEN DONE. 

Seven years ago the members of this Society were confronted with 
the fact that there was no practical common school text-book on horti- 
culture that the student could study. 

We have undertaken the task of preparing such a book. Our plan 
is to show conclusively to the people the need of such a study ; to 
awaken enthusiasm in its favor among ourselves, the teachers and 
public spirited men, and at the same time to collect such knowledge 
as is adequate to the needs of the present time. For the last four years 
we have sent out a new list of 100 questions on horticulture to be 
answered by those experts who know best the answers. As their in- 
formation is received it is published in our annual reports, and finally 



270 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

the whole will be rearranged and classified for use in public schools, 
and then we will seek for desired legislation to allow its use. 

We have every assurance that Iowa, Illinois, Kansas and Ohio will 
join us this year by appointing similar committees in their several 
State societies on horticultural education to co-operate with us. Thus 
we hope the work will enlarge and develop until it is consummated in 
the desired result. 

Last winter we acquainted the school teachers of this State with 
the year's work when they met in their State convention at Sedalia. 
We hope to do the same this year at Jefferson City. We ask the co- 
opeiation of all friends of this movement in all education. 

G. B. Lamm, Sedalia. 



DISCUSSION. 

Prof. Whitten — This Society is doing a good work in pushing horti- 
cultural work along in the schools. This year the demand for instruc- 
tion in horticulture at the University was larger than ever before. 
There were thirty teachers in our summer course. Thirteen of these 
took the course in horticulture. The result was that at the end of the 
short six-week course they were very much enthused over the work. 
So far as known, no other institution in the United States of America 
has offered any such course. Naturally the teachers who attend this 
summer course demand instruction in the branches which are required 
in the common schools. Horticalture is not required ; yet the Univers- 
ity took it up and pushed it. This shows that the University is anxious 
to meet the demand of the people of the State. I think Mr. Lamm 
will believe that the University is willing to co-operate with the horti- 
culturists in teaching this subject in the public schools. 

Sec. Goodman — Twenty-five years ago w^e began the agitation of 
teaching horticulture in the schools. We are making progress. We 
will get all these things in the proper time and way. We do not expect 
it to displace dead languages and sciences. Horticulture in the schools 
must come as a growth, or it cannot come at all. Our State Superin- 
tendent has recognized three books on horticulture as textbooks in 
the schools. It is not necessary to teach horticulture without regard 
to other things. It is hard to teach things that nobody wants to learn. 
When I went to Columbia to teach horticulture, I said, " Boys do you 
want to know something about horticulture ? If you do, I will be glad 
to help you : but if you do not, I do not care to teach you." When 
children get older and want to know anything of importance in a 
business way, they will learn as much in six weeks as they would have 



WINTER MEETING. 271 

done in six years when small. There is nothing in the world which 
expands a man as much as getting knowledge of everything he can. 
You need never be afraid of learning too much of anything. The 
country is full of knowledge, and you can have just as much as you 
are willing to take. The world is full of the goodness of God ; you 
can have just as much as you are willing to take. 

Let us follow the plan of the paper and have horticulture in our 
schools, but let us not forget that we should not neglect the greater 
studies and the greater development in our University while we are 
caring for the lesser. 

Again, the. best way to get horticulture in our schools is to teach 
it in our colleges and universities — prepare our teachers for this work 
and they will gladly take it up. It is only teaching nature in an im- 
proved way, and our teachers ought to be ready to teach it as soon 
as they become acquainted with its needs. I believe horticulture 
should be taught in our gchools, but not from a text-book. It should 
be taught by talking and telling about the trees and vines, and fruits^ 
and vegetables, and by illustration, and experimenting, and testing, and 
examining common things about us; learn of them and from them. 
Show them seed and how to plant them; show them twigs and how 
they bud ; show Ihem trees, and vines, and plants and plant them, and 
fiee them grow. All this should be done, should it not, without bringing 
down to book-form this knowledge? Make it a study of nature in 
horticulture, or rather horticulture in nature. 

Mr. Murray — I want to say a few words endorsing the paper and 
and what friend Goodman has said, and a word in regard to the pros- 
pects of getting horticulture in our schools. This matter was before 
the Thirty-ninth General Assembly. As chairman of the Committee 
on Agriculture, I think we could have passed anything along this line 
if we had been prepared for it, but we had no work ready for instruc- 
tion along the line of horticulture, so we thought best to wait till a 
work could be formulated. I don't doubt that we can get the law 
when we are ready for it. We wonder why our sons don't attend the 
school of horticulture. You can't get them to take it till they want it. 



PEACHES FOR CENTRAL MISSOURI. 

Below I give you a list of peaches that succeed best with us : 
Early Rivers, Mountain Rose, Early York, Old Mixon Free, Old Mixon 
Cling, Smock, Stump, Elberta, Crawford's Late, Henrietta, Piquett's 
Late, Sal way. 



272 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIEIY. 

Heath Cling, a few years back, was one of the most profitable 
peaches grown with us, but of late years it seems to have been attacked 
by some disease, the fruit in many, instances being completely covered 
with gum, making it utterly worthless, and I notice other clings are 
affected in like manner. 

The peach yellows and San Jose scale are both with us and I fear 
if there are not laws enacted by our State Legislature that they will 
spread to every portion of our State. I have only had, so far, three or 
four peach irees affected with the yellows, and these I cut down and 
burnt as soon as I discovered they were affected, but there is scarcely 
a peach orchard for miles around that is not more or less affected with 
the disease. Mr. L. V. Dix's orchard is the only one, so far, in which 
the San Jose scale has been discovered. 

About 90 per cent of the strawberries and blackcap raspberries 
succumbed to the drouth. Blackberries and red raspberries were but 
little damaged. Fruit trees that were well cultivated were not seriously 
damaged by the drouth, and the prespects for a good crop of fruit next 
year are good at present. A. J. Davis, JelTerson City, Mo. 



BEST CHERRIES, BEST LOCATION AND BEST TREATMENT. 

In all fruits there are those varieties that excel in popularity and 
stand out pre-eminently superior to the majority of varieties of the 
same class on account of their hardiness, thriftiness, fruitfulness and 
other good qualities. For ningle illustrations that will be plain to all 
take the Ben Davis in the apple. Wild Goose in plums, Concord in 
grapes and Crescent in strawberries. 

These varieties with a few others, some of which are far better in 
some respects than the ones which I have named, stand at the head 
of the list in their respective classes ; and the man that plants them 
and gives them fair treatment will reap a bountiful harvest. 

On the other hand there are hundreds of other varieties that will 
be a source of expense and disappointment to the planter. I would 
therefore advocate the planting of varieties that have been thoroughly 
tested and known to be good. Not that I wish to get into a rut and 
stay there, but I do not believe it is the business of the fruit-grower 
and farmer to engage in expensive experimental work, especially when 
there are other agencies better adapted to such work than he is. I 
believe in making use of all the experience I can get from Experiment 
Stations, Farmer's Institutes, agricultural papers, friends, neighbors 
and every other available source. Experience is too dear to be bought 



WINTER MEETING. 273 

•direct. Even after the merits of a new variety have been thoroughly 
investigated, and the evidence would seem to prove that it was super- 
ior to the old varieties, it would still be unwise to at once discard the 
old and stock up heavily with the new. What I have said of other 
fruits in general, will apply to the cherry in particular. 

Of the host of varieties described in the catalogues, and most of 
them in glowing colors, there are but a few that are worthy of a trial 
by the fruit-grower or farmer. Some of these varieties that I have 
designated as worthless may occasionally, under very favorable con- 
ditions, bear a crop of tine fruit, but as fruit-growers are generally 
practical business men who are striving for the highest degree of suc- 
cess, they cannot afford to spend time and money pampering these 
shy-bearing varieties. Who would think of planting the Heart and 
Bigarreau cherries for home use or market here in Missouri when we 
have such varieties as Early Eichmond, Montmorency and English 
Morrello ! And yet, strange as it may seem, in this enlightened State, 
flooded as it is with reliable information on all subjects pertaining to 
agriculture and horticulture, many of our farmers are doing this very 
thing or worse. They are willingly paying fancy prices for new varie- 
ties of which they, and in some cases, no one else ever heard of, simply 
because they are lecommended by unprincipled tree dealers. 

For market I would plant very sparingly outside of the three va- 
rieties already referred to. Early Eichmond, or Early May, as it is 
often called, is unquestionably the most popular cherry in the west. 
It is very fruitful and, no doubt, brings growers more money than all 
oiher kinds combined. Montmorency (Ordinare), though not as pop- 
ular on account of not being so well known as Early Eichmond, is as 
good a cherry in every respect, and in some respects superior. It is 
a regular and heavy bearer. Fruit somewhat larger than Eichmond 
and ripening about ten days later. The tree is an early bearer and a 
fine symmetrical grower. The English Morrello is a good cherry, but 
ripens so late that it is rather out of the cherry season and is therefor 
diflBcult to market. It is an excellent cherry for home use, especially 
for canning. Late Keutish is also a fairly profitable cherry. It opens 
early 4n July, and is therefor not as late as English Morrello. It is 
smaller than Early Eichmond and more tart. 

The soil of North Missouri is not the best for the cherry. It is too 
heavy and the sub-soil is to cold and compact. The cherry delights in 
a loose, deep, sandy soil. Failure is often due to unsuitable location. 
Trees are frequntly planted on low or poorly-drained soils, and live for 
years under favorable conditions of the weather and then die suddenly 
H— 18. 



274 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

when the ground reinaics soaked with water for several weeks at a 
time.- Such conditions as these prevailed in several western states some 
five or six years ago. Many large bearing trees suddenly turned yel- 
low and died, and whole rows of young nursery trees were lost, and 
in consequence the price of cherry trees was advanced materially. 

So then we should remember that the cherry, above all fruit trees,, 
should have a dry location. The varieties that I have named as suc- 
cessful in this State should always be budded on Mahaleb stock as near 
the ground as possible. The cherry is said to be a difiScult fruit to 
bud, and it is true that the efforts of new beginners usually result in 
utter failure. It is not a difBcult matter to get cherry buds to take if 
they are inserted late in the season — not before September first — and 
from then on as long as the stock is growing. All stone fruits take 
much more readily if budded late. Indeed we are informed on the 
authority of the Texas experiment station that budding can be suc- 
cessfully performed in the winter on dormant stocks. It is done 
as follows: "After cutting off a bud with some wood attached,, 
cut a slip of bark with some wood attached to it also down about one 
inch, leaving it still attached to the lower end. This cut must be made 
about the size of the cut bud so that the bud will fit evenly over the 
cut place. Part of the loose slips should be cut off and the bud 
slipped down between the wood and the slip. Tie the bud tightly with 
raffia or corn shuck." We have had success with this method in Jan- 
uary. The buds soon knit firmly, and can be forced out in spring- 
This method can be used to advantage in dry weather when the bark 
refuses to slip, or on stock which failed to take when budded in the 
usual way during the summer. We have budded roses and many kinds 
of trees in this way successfully. This method greatly prolongs the 
season of budding and will to that extent somewhat lessen the cost of 
the work. 

The cherry tree, after planting in the orchard, is exceedingly lia- 
ble to bark burst or iojury from the sun on the south and west sides 
of the trunk, greatly detracting from the looks and usefulness of the 
tree. To avoid this the trees should be made to branch out very near 
the ground. Two-year-old trees are generally planted, but as they are 
usually headed too high as they come from the nursery, and as it is 
difficult to start the branches lower on such large trunks, I would ad- 
vise planting trees one year from the bud. If the lower branches of 
these have been removed by the nurseryman, others can be forced out 
by cutting back the main stem to 18 inches from the ground. " This 
will give the tree branches 12 to 15 inches from the ground, and, by 
the way, it is a good practice to have all kinds ot fruit trees branch 



WINTER MEETING. 275 

out quite near the ground. The cherry requires but little pruning. 
Keep all dead wood cut out, and all crossing or interfering branches 
should be removed while young. Clean, thorough cultivation should 
be given the young trees, but when they come into bearing it is best 
not to induce too much growth. The ground may be sown to clover, 
which should be cut two or three times during the season and allowed 
to remain on the ground to add nitrogen and act as a mulch. I have 
often noticed trees bearing successive crops of tine cherries while 
standing in tough sod or in hard packed door yards. I would not say, 
in view of this fact, that it is best to discontinue cultivation entirely 
when the tree comes into bearing, because I have seen other trees bear 
just as good crops under cultivation ; and then, in the case of trees in 
door yards, the curculio is no doubt at a great disadvantage by the dif- 
ficulty of working in the hard ground and being frequently disturbed 
by persona passing and by poultry. This suggests the question of 
spraying, which cannot be ignored if we wish to grow perfect fruit. It 
is questionable if the curculio can be successfully combatted by spray- 
ing. Jarring is much more reliable, and yet it is pot always practica- 
ble. 

The habits of the insect should be carefully studied, and efforts 
put forth to restrict as much as possible their increase. Chickens are 
very useful in destroying them, and should, therefore, be allowed the 
run of the orchard from early spring till the fruit is harvested. Hogs, 
also, are useful in helping to exterminate the insect. By their rooting 
under the trees, no doubt many of the insects are thrown out from 
their resting places and either perish from the weather or become the 
prey of birds. The aphis often becomes very troublesome on the 
cherry by sucking the life out of the tree through the leaves. They 
are quite easily killed by spraying wijth kerosene emulsion. 

This whole matter of spraying is fully set forth by bulletins issued 
by all the states and the Department of Agriculture at Washington, 
and to them I would refer any one interested. 

Gr. P. TuENEE, Meadville, Mo. 



Thursday, 2 p. m. 

The meeting was called to order. 
Report of Committee on Final Resolutions. 

The motion of Mr. Rice that report of Committee on Resolutions 
be accepted was withdrawn. 



276 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Mr. Goodman moved the adoption of the report, exoept the part 
in regard to the Paris exposition. Carried. 

Mr. Nelson moved the part excepted be adopted. Carried. 
Your Committee on Final Resolutions submit the following report : 

We desire to thank the people of Moberly for their uniform courtesies and kindness, 
and for their Interest and attention to the proceedings. We wish to thank the ladles for 
the heautlfally decorated hall. We especially wish to thank the professors, teachers and 
pupils of the public and high schools for their most excellent singing, and also the ladles 
for their equally excellent music. We extend the thanks of this Society to |the hotels for 
the attentions and favors sliown visiting membars. We also wish to thank the railroads 
for the favors we are about to receive, maybe. If not, then we wish to thank our worthy 
Treasurer for jumping into the breach; whereas it is 

Resolved, That your Committee feels that its work would be most Incomplete did it 
nqt acknowledge in some way the Inestimable services of our retiring President, rendered 
to this Society and the great fruit interests of our State. 

We feel and acknowledge our inability to And words that will fitly express our appre- 
ciation, or that of the friends of laortlculture everywhere. We have not only enjoyed the 
benefit of his precepts, but have been equally benefited by his example, the results of 
which may be witnessed in the magnificent liortlcuitural monument he has reared amidst 
his green Ozark hills. We freely admit the truthfulness of his statement that no one in 
jyilssouri is more deserving or more capable tlian tlie one chosen as his successor, and 
realize that his large private interests impose a heavy burden upon him, yet we trust that 
he will still give us the benefit of his counsel and advice in the future as liberally as he 
has done in the past . * 

Future generations will point backward to the time when horticulture in Missouri 
took an onward and upward bound towards the splendid fruit development that within a 
score of years placed a comparatively unknown State, in so far as her fruit productive capa- 
city was concerned, not only among the first, but actually the first fruit state in the Union. 

Among all the men who may take due share of credit for this splendid result, there is 
no name to wlioin so much is due as that of the Hon J C. Evans, of Missouri. 

Carried. 

RESOLUTION. 

Whereas, The World's Pair is next to be held at the city of Paris, France, in the year 
of 1900; and 

Whereas, The general government Is now arranging for space to exhibit American 
products, among tliem the agricultural and horticultural products of our land; and 

Whereas, The President of the United States will soon appoint commissioners for the 
various departments; and » 

Whereas, Missouri is now among the first states in the value of her fruit products in 
the union; therefore, be it 

Resolved, Tliat the Missouri State Horticultural Society, in annual meeting assembled 
at the city of Aioberiy, having full confidence in liis knowledge and ability as a fruit-grower 
and shipper, and by reason of his past experlnce of twenty-years as a dealer, grower and 
shipper both in this and to foreign countries, therefore we hereby most earnestly and re- 
spectfully petition his excellency, Wm. McKlnley, President of the United States, to ap- 
point the Hon. Chas. C. Bell of Booneville, Mo., one of the special commissioners for the 
United States in charge of the horticultural products placed on exhibition at said World's 
Fair. 

Carried. 

Omaha, Neb., December 9, 1897. 
.L. A. Goodman, Horticultural Society, Moberly, Mo. : 

Greeting from Trans-Mississippi Exposition. We expect Missouri to do her part 
nobly. 'F. W. TArLOR. 



WINTER MEETING. 277 



GRAPE GROWJNG IN THE MISSOURI VALLEY. 

The subject assigned is one by no means new, yet I feel unequal 
to the task, embracing as it does a vast amount of detail that is neither 
convenient nor proper to present in a short paper. Grape-growing as 
an occupation of man is very ancient. It has claimed a part of his 
time and talent through all changing scenes in the history of the 
human race. 

The Missouri Valley poseesees many favorable features that the 
grape demands. Of course we recognize the advantages imputed to 
some other localities, such as the Chatanooga Grape Belt, northern and 
western Texas and southern California, for the raisin grape, but to our 
own surroundings let me call your attention. In point of favorable 
location and rare adaptability of soil, I wish to emphasize the "loess" 
formation along the Missouri river. This is a strip of country from six 
to twelve miles wide, and contigious to it for a greater portion of its 
length. The soil of this formation is in very many places fifty feet 
deep and equally good all the way down. We hear much of Klon- 
dyke, but what a fortune is here for the present and future generations ! 

If we except five or six counties in the southeast part of the State 
we think Missoiari is the best all-around grape-growing section in the 
Union, with a maximum quantity of five tons per acre. Nor will I 
omit to notice my own state — the fair land of Kansas. On the maps 
during my early school days was printed the " Great American Desert." 
What a howling desolation we had pictured it in our minds' eye ! The 
" desert " is gone, and in its stead the great commonwealth of Kansas 
Its vintage may yet astonish the world and share the honors along 
with its wheat, its corn and its cattle. 

But to be more specific in regard to grape ground, I will just say 
that yonder hill, with a good drainage and an eastern exposure, is an 
ideal location. Secure thrifty 1-year-old plants; plant in the early 
spring on land prepared the previous year; place the plants in rows 
eight feet apart ; also eight feet apart in the row. Every seventh row 
should be eleven feet wide to facilitate driving through. Cultivate 
well for two years, but allow no crop the first and second years. The 
subsequent cultivation should be thorough, both to prevent weeds 
and to overcome the eflTects of drouth. In no case should the soil be 
allowed to crack; frequent and shallow cultivation is the remedy. If 
defoliation occurs the crop will be seriously damaged. 



278 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Pruning will now claim our attention. Without any attempt at a 
scientific explanation how, I will just say that three or four canes of 
thrifty new wood should be left for the coming crop. These canes will 
have from thirty to 1hirty:five buds, which is plenty if the vineyard 
is well up in fertility ; if the land is thin and over-cropping has been 
allowed one-half this number is ample. 

The time for trimming should immediately follow our Indian sum- 
mer, then the leaves are off and the wood is matured ; we will get well 
punished if pruniug is left until mid-winter or early spring. Mud and 
snow boot top deep will be your portion with no mitigating compensa- 
tion ; besides you have contracted rheumatism, neuralgia or bronchitis. 
Another reason for pruning in the fall is that we get rid of fungi spore 
and insect eggs by burning all trash and accumulated debris. 

The only summer pruning that we practice is to pinch off the end 
of the new vine beyond the second leaf just after -the fruit has set. 
Some question its utility but we think it is beneficiaL The question of 
what varieties to plant is not the least important to decide. The black 
grape is the most popular. For commercial planting three well known 
varieties stand at the head, namely : Moore's Early, Worden and Con- 
cord, ripening in the order named with intervals of ten days. Of the 
many new black grapes before the market, one in particular is worthy of 
mention, namely : CambelPs Early ; many speak in praise of it ; we think 
it has come to stay. Telegraph, Janesville and Wilder are very popu- 
lar with some growers. 

Red grapes are evidently gaining ground. Tbe best of all is the 
Brighton. We have not yet eeen its superior; then follow the Dela- 
ware, Lindley, Woodruff, Salem, Wyoming, Massasoit and Goethe. 

White grapes have many admirers; the most fastidious tastes can- 
not fail to be pleased. Of the especial favorites we name Niagara, 
Pocklington, Moore's Diamond, Martha. Lady Washington and Mis- 
souri Riesling. We cannot pass the subject of varieties without call- 
ing attention to the new seedling and hybrids of T. V. Munsoh of Den- 
nison, Texas. The newer strains of Texas Post Oak, or Vitis Lincecumii, 
are worthy of the grower's careful attention. Some of them have been 
known to do well through a dry and hot season in tbe southwest when 
the Concord was a failure. 

The Vinifera varieties belong to southern and western Texas and 
California; they have no place in our catalogue. 

In our experience with the vine, we have not been afflicted with 
mildew or rot. 

The Bordeaux mixture is the great remedy ; apply it plentifully 
once before budding and twice after at intervals of two weeks. The 



WINTER MEETING. 279 

prophets of old have told us of the utter devastation of the vineyards 
more than 28 centuries since. Thankful, indeed, are we that no such 
scourges are recorded in our time. 

A little worm classed entomologically as thrips does some damage. 

That dread destroyer of the European vineyard, "phylloxera," has 
not visited this country to any considerable extent; but let us be 
watchful ; neglect will only presage disaster and disappointment. 

The subject of a market must be left to some one else. Besides 
the home grown stock many car'loads have found their way to Kansas 
City, but they are cheap. But be their commercial value what it will, 
they retain all their medicinal and delicious qualities just the same. 

To the townsman we recommend the culture of the vine; the occu- 
pation will be both pleasant and healthful. Many an unsightly spot 
can be hid ; also, it can be made to lessen the expense account. A 
lack of room will be urged as an apology, no doubt. So used have all 
of us became to the broad prairies that we cannot place a proper esti- 
mate on a foot of land. 

In closing, I will say to the fruitman : Wake up, study your fruits, 
your climate and your soil. God may have been a million years in pre- 
paring Missouri for your habitation and mine. Let us do our own 
work in our own time. Some day this State will have ten millions of 
people, and a new generation will be singing praises to a beneficent 
Oreator for the abundant harvests of the vine. 

A. Chandler, Argentine, Kas. 



GRAPE-GROWING. 

From reading ancient histories and legends it appears that the 
grape culture is as old as man; yet seemingly it is the least understood 
hereabouts. 

The intelligent grape-grower, in order to become successful, should 
acquaint himself with the fundamental principles of the grape vines, 
the home of the variety and where mostly cultivated successfully, the 
history of the variety and its illustrations, the general character of the 
vine, its vigor of growth, fertility, hardiness, resistence to heat, cold 
and drouth, to parasitic and fungous diseases, to insects, requirements 
of climate, soil and culture ; its wood, heavy or light, long or short- 
jointed, color and character of its bud; leafing early or late, size of its 
foliage, shape (lobed or not ), upper and lower surface (smooth, glossy, 
hairy or wooly ); leaf fall, early or late, change of color (to yellow or 
red ) preceding fall ; size and shape of the bunch, shouldered or not, 



280 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

compact or loose, size of berries, shape, skin, color pulp or flesh, num- 
ber and size of seeds ; their consistency, taste and use, for table or 
wine, or for both ; keeping quality, period of blooming and ripening 
(early, medium or late). 

Furthermore, in order to enable him to thoroughly understand the 
special characteristics of the vines by their nativity, he should ac- 
quaint himself with the classification of native wild grape vines and 
their botanical characteristics and names. 

After the settlement of the New England states the vitis Vinifera 
(the European and Asiatic grape) was introduced and planted, and, 
after thousands of failures (on account of the destructive Phylloxera,, 
grape- vine root-louse, of which at that time nothing was known ) ob- 
serving the native wild grapes growing vigorously and bearing their 
fruits yearly, the growers commenced to improve them. Hence the 
grape- vines we cultivate in the United States east of the Rocky Moun- 
tains have originated from one or the other of the several distinct na- 
tive species or from crosses between some of their varieties. 

These native vines are distinctly different from each other, growing 
wild in certain limited portions of our country and not at all in others. 

For example the Labrusca (the Northern fox grape), whose home 
is the region between the Atlantic ocean and the Alleghaney mount- 
ains, is a stranger in the lower Mississippi valley and westward. 

The home of the ^Estivalis (the well known summer grape), is the 
grape of the Middle and Southern states ; it is one of most variable of 
our grape-vines, and one of the most important on account of its in- 
trinsic value as a wine grape (and even for table use), as we derive our 
very best wines from the .Estivalis; also on account of its absolute re- 
sistance to the Phylloxera. 

The Riparia has the widest geographical distribution of any of our 
grape-vines and is the hardiest of them all ; is called the Riverside 
grape, a rather inappropriate name, as there is another species of 
grape-vine in the river and stream bottoms, Vitis Cordifolia (frost or 
possom grape), which mislead even some very intelligent men by class- 
ing them together, as they are entirely distinct from each other. The 
Riparia leafs out, blooms and ripens the earlier and propagates easily 
from cuttings; the Cordifolia blooms and ripens later (hence its name),, 
and it cannot be propagated readily from cuttings. 

Here J let the further classification rest, otherwise this paper 
would becomes too voluminous and I desire to dwell only on the above 
species, as we are living in the home of the ^Estivalis. 

It is to be regretted that most of the practical grape-growers are 
unwilling or unable to study the botanical characteristic of the grape- 



WINTER MEETING. 281 

vine, although whenever they buy an animal or desire to breed some 
of their stock to other animals the first thing they inquire about is pedi- 
gree, yet they never think of inquiring into the important pedigree of 
the grape-vines they cultivate. Yet without such investigation they 
never can determine to which species a cultivated variety belongs and 
thereby know what qualities it will have ; what kind of soil and loca- 
tion is most suitable; its propagating quality; its being more or less 
subject to certain diseases; whether more or less hardy and produc- 
tive, etc., nor will they ever know how to appreciate the arduous work 
and. the amount of time and money spent by the indefatigable and 
zealous producers of the new and superior varieties for the grape- 
grower's special benefit. 

Ijfotwithstanding that there are thousands of varieties of grape- 
vines in existence in the world today, yet the grape-vine is peculiary 
the growth of definite climatic conditions. 

No one grape is suited to all localities, neither is there any one 
locality which is suited to all grapes. 

The Bushberg Grape Manual, on page 3, says, "notwithstanding 
that over 1,500 varieties are cultivated in Europe, yet the number of 
kinds especially adapted to the different localities is very limited for 
each of them, and we seldom find more than three or four varieties to 
form the main bulk of the vineyards of the different sections; each 
province, county or township even having its own special favorites ;" 
which is perfectly correct save that the Manual does not go far enough, 
as the vineyards of Badacson, Tihany and Fured in Hungary are only 
two or three miles apart, and yet they produce distinct and leading 
wines different from each other ; they, as well as Somlyo a few miles 
away, are upheavals out of a level country with a perfect demarka- 
tion, as the whole surrounding country consists of a deep black soil, 
yet the soils in these vineyards are all mulatto soils. 

There are but few localities in the world where the grape will, in 
favorable seasons, grow to perfection. 

As there are very few places where all the requirements are united 
to produce perfect grapes and wines, which are — clear sky, dry atmos- 
phere, high temperature — not over six inches rainfall on an average for 
the growing months of April, May and June, and not over four inches 
average for the maturing months of July, August and September, a 
self draining dry and warm soil containing special virtues, and a proper 
elevation. 

The grape-vine possesses greater absorptive power and assimila- 
tive capacity than any other plant ; by planting it into a congenial soil 



282 STATE HOETICrLTDEAL SOCIETY. 

containing special virtues it will partake of theoi and impart the same 
to its trait. 

Thns the climate, the mean temperature as well as extremes, the 
length of the growing season, the relative amount of rain, the altitude 
and particularly the soil have an almost incredible inliuence on various 
varieties of grapes and a judicious choice of location adapted to the 
grapes, and of varieties adapted to our location, its climate and soil, 
is, therefore, of the first importance. 

The southern slope of the Ozarks is one of the very few favored 
localities where grapes can be grown to perfection in favorable seasons' 
where the most advantageous atmospheric conditions, altitude and the 
proper soil are united, the altitude averaging about 1,200 feet above 
the sea level. 

After the proper altitude and atmospheric conditions are obtained, 
the main factor is the pecaliar quality of the soil in the production of 
the best grapes and wines. To illustrate it more forcibly, I will name 
the world-wide celebrated Hungarian Tokay wine for example: the 
territory producing it in Hungary is very small, covering only a few 
square miles, with a distant demarkation of its lines, and if a vine of 
it is transplanted beyond its limit, be it ever so near, without losing its 
botanical identity, it degenerates from its former qualitative produc- 
tion, regaining it when returned and replanted. 

The Bushberg Grape Manual very forcibly illustrates this in a note 
on page 32, having reference to the Gyongy Szolo (Pearl Grape) as 
being an inferior grape, though grown at Tokay (of course, planted out- 
side of the proper limit). 

Bearing on the same subject, I will still farther illustrate the 
especial quality of the soil in a particular locility as containing special 
virtues not contained elsewhere. 

The country surrounding the city of Angora (Asia Minor), consists 
of a barren, red, gravely -like rolling mountains, producing only a cer- 
tain kind of weeds, similar to our horse mint, on which the silk goats 
live principally; the territory of the weed's growth is also small — to 
the best of my recollection, it will not reach the size of our Howell 
county (I lived there) — and if the goat is removed from there his silk 
degenerates into a coarse hair, neither can these weeds be raised out- 
side of their natural region and retain their virtues ; but if the same 
goat is returned to its native land it will regain its former silk. 

Therefore, I particularize the soil on the southern slope of the 
Ozarks when I state that this will be the grape-growing country of the 
United States; here we have the clear sky and dry atmosphere, a high 
temperature and very little rainfall for the maturing months of July, 



WINTER MEETING. 283 

Au;?u8t and September, a long dry fall season, and a less change of 
temperature than 59'' Fahr. in 24 hours at anytime of the year : the 
s )il is dry, porous and self-draining, containing different inexhaustible 
mineral plant foods requisite for the production of rich and delicious 
fruits and possessing the erabadimeat of all the elements for the pro- 
duction of perfect grapes and wines. 

I have lived here in the Ozarks for 30 years and our .Estivalis 
vines never failed as yet; therefore, let the grape-grower follow and 
assist natare, it is his beat guide, but whenever he undertakes to lead 
or force nature it will drop him in the mire with inevitable loss. 

If he can not be otherwise persuaded, let him cut off the timber 
on a patch of ground oq the hill where there is not even a visible wild 
grape-vine growing, leaving it in that condition; in a few years time he 
will find a mass of wild ^Estivalis grapevines growing on it, and if 
there is some living water near by he will also find Riparia mixed with 
it, but no Labrusca; should he desire to be convinced of these facts 
without waiting for years, let him examine some neglected corners in 
some of the fields reaching up the hillside, as well as the fence rows, 
and he will find the same wild vines there which will clearly indicate 
to him which lamily of grape-vines to plant on the Ozarks. 

The accepted maxim in grape culture is, plant only of those species 
of grape-vines the wild ones of which grow in the woods of the respec 
tive localities, in order to be successful ; the grape-vine is a fish out of 
water wherever and whenever planted outside of its native soil. 

The Ozarks being the home of the J^stivalis and Eiparia, plant 
none but them ; they are the healthiest, hardiest and best grape-vines 
we have. 

Wm. Saunders, Supt. Experimental Station U. S. Dept. of Agri- 
culture, Washington, D. 0., commenting on the ^stivalis says : " This 
species is pre-eminently the wine grape of the South Atlantic states 
and of the lower Mississippi Valley and Texas, the berries are desti- 
tute of pulp, the juice contains a larger per centage of sugar than any 
other improved American species, the foliage is not so liable to disease 
as that of Labrusca, and in the berries rot is also lesp prevailing; in 
some varieties of this class, as Norton's Virginia and Cynthiana, it is 
comparatively unknown. 

"The most genial home of those species is the country of the Ozark 
hills in Missouri, South Kansas, Arkansas, Texas and the Indian Ter- 
ritory, probably also the mountain slopes of Virginia, North Carolina 
and Tennessee, and these must be looked upon as the grape producing 
regions of this continent, east of the Rocky Mountains for a certain 
class of fine wines. — Bushberg Grape Manual." 



284 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

The good wine grapes raised on the Ozarks will create a l^o. 1 
market for themselves just as soon as they are raised and it becomes 
known to the wine-makers of the country that the grapes can be had; 
they will be eagerly on hand (more so than they were after the peaches 
this year) to buy the grapes of those who are unable to make it into 
wine because it requires more capital, and of those whose conscien- 
tious scruples deter them from doing so, at prices that will defy com- 
petition with the Labrusca. 

Let it be borne in mind that the wines stand in the same relation 
to each other for quality and value as the metals do. Iron and gold 
are both metals, yet what would the grape-grower think of the man 
who mines iron on his premises when he could mine gold with less 
trouble and expense? 

The fermented pure juice of the grape, called wine, is not only a 
beverage, but medicine and food also. It is that universal oldest rem- 
edy against human alflictions, that elixir which invigorates man as no 
other stimulant or medicine can. . 

While wine will intoxicate if used to excess, nevertheless is in 
itself an aid to temperance. 

After becoming accustomed to wine-drinking, the amount it takes 
to satisfy one's thirst will have no effect as far as intoxication is con- 
cerned and, after one's thirst is satisfied, he does not crave more (unless 
he be a glutton who drinks it, because it is wine and not because he 
thirsts for it) ; and distilled spirits become so distasteful that even 
their gcent is objectionable ; consequently wine cures the thirst for 
distilled spirits, instead of exciting it. 

Our temperance societies, with their aim of absolute prohibition* 
virtually assist and uphold the use of whisky, as the whisky element is 
fighting the American wine as much as the temperance societies do, 
knowing that whenever the people take to the use of wine their busi- 
ness will go to the wall. 

Wine-drinking is a benefit even to the drunkard, as he retains his 
senses in his drunken state, and it does not turn him wild, and a cup 
of strong hot coffee will sober him in 15 to 20 minutes, unlike being 
drunk on poisonous distilled spirits, which is likely to give him the 
delirium tremens. 

I have reference to the pure juice of the grape as stated above, 
and not the abominable adulterated wines made by some of the grape- 
growers in the rural districts. First, they usually and principally raise 
the Labrusca family of grapes, which is so poor in saccharine that they 
have to add sugar in order to create the necessary amount of alcohol 
to keep it when made into wine (otherwise it would turn into vinegar) 



WINTER MEETING. 285 

which unfits it for pure wine. There are few locilities where even the 
best Labrusca varieties will attaiu the required amount of saccharine. 
Sicond, some adulterate their wine by adding sugar and water, and 
some of them add even poisonous coloring matter unfit to drink. 

The differeiice in the ratio of drunkenness, diseases, crimes and 
insanity between wine-drinking and distilled spirit-drinking countries is 
very great to my own knowledge, as Hungary is a wine-drinking coun- 
try and the adjoining PoUand and Kussia are distilled spirit-drinking 
countries. 

Desiring to obtain official statistics on the subject, I applied to the 
State Department at Washington, D. C, but failed to obtain them, as 
they have none ; hence I am unable to furnish an official statement. 

Wine is grown and used all over the civilized world, and is pro- 
hibited only in China and among the Mohammedans, whose religion 
forbids them to use intoxicants. Bat has it made them better, wiser, 
more virtuous or civilized ? The enervating and destructive opium 
and the horrible hashish have taken the place of the invigorating wine, 
the natural consequence of absolute prohibition. I have lived among 
the Mohammedans and know whereof I speak. 

I am cognizant of the fact that the Jilstivalis type cannot be pro- 
pagated from cuttings, and in consequence of the extra labor involved 
in their propagation, they are far costlier than those easily progagated 
from cuttings, but any grape-grower who is able to own land on which 
to raise grapes, is certainly able to procure a few of them at least, and 
by perserverance he can soon raise plants from them by yearly layer- 
ing, which will enable him to plant acres in due course of time, and in 
the meantime he can raise some grapes also on the remaining canes. 

LIST OP VARIETIES. 

Norton's Virginia, ^st., Bertrand, Rip., Herbemont, ^st., Far 
West, J5st., Marion, Rip., Bacchus, Rip., Montefiore, Rip., Clinton, Rip., 
Cynthiana, Mit., Brant, Rip., Munson, Line Rip., Cunningham, So. ^3t., 
Elvira, Rip., Ralander or St. Genevieve, So. ^st., Deleware, ^^st., 
Louisana, So. ^Eat., Devereux, So. .^st., Missouri Riesling, Rip., 
Baldwin Lenoir, JEst, Ozark, ^st., Kentucky, ^st., Ruby, Hybr., 
Long worth, Line, ^st., Dr. Wylie, .Est., Laura, .Est., Dufour, Line. 
^st., Woodburry, a white seedling of Deleware, Darwin, .Est. 

The following are very highly recommended for extra early, fine 
market grapes : Jewell, ^st., White Jewell, Rip., Golden Gem, ^st. 
Hybr., Early Ohio, Shelby, ^Est. Rip. 

All the intelligent grape-growers should procure a few of the above 
vines that are recommended for trial, and report on their merit or de- 



286 STATE HORTICULTUEAL SOCIETY. 

merit as a vine may give perfect satisfaction in one locality and dis- 
satisfaction in another; thereby we can intelligently ascertain in the 
shortest space of time, the successful vines for the different localities.. 

P. P. DoBOZY, West Plains, Mo. 



DISCUSSION. 

In reply to questions, Mr. Chandler said: Vines don't die after 
fall pruning. Pockliuton is among the best white grapes for the market. 
It is of poor quality, but showy, like the Ben Davis apple. Niagara 
and Moore's Diamond are fine white grapes. Niagara is not tender with 
me. I use a trellis with two No. 12 wires; the lower about two feet 
high, the upper about four feet. Moore's Early will average from eight 
to twelve pounds to the vine ; not as productive as Concord, but best 
black grape in quality. Brighton is the best red. Goethe is not up to 
the standard for profit. Jewell is no good. Early Ohio is of poor 
quality. Agawam I have not fruited. Campbell's Early is very prom- 
ising. I have not fruited it, but a neighbor has. Delaware is not a 
success financially. Woodruff is good and very handsome. My vines 
are eight feet apart each way. Black grapes pay best. Goethe the 
past season was well colored and brought twice as much per pound as 
Concord. I know a man who successfully kept grapes in cold storage, 
but it did not pay this year. How it may work in other years I don't 
know. 

Mr. Murray — In New York they don't have artificial cold storage 
for their grapes. 

Prof. Whitten — It is said that they keep them in warm places to 
dry the moisture from the stems and then put them in baskets, but not 
in cold storage. 

Mr. Bomberger — Experience of eight or nine years in keeping 
grapes shows that it makes a good deal of difference where the grapes 
are grown about their keeping. New York grapes grow in poor soil, 
among rock. Their clay soils grow grapes with thin, tough skins. 
Grapes grown in a country like this, where there is a retention of mois- 
ture, do not keep well. Sometimes I can keep Concords six weeks in 
good condition ; at other times they spoil in two weeks. There is no 
earthly excuse for us buying our grapes from Ohio and New York. There 
is a market anywhere if you will make it by putting the right kind of 
energy into your business. 

Mr. Chandler — You must keep up cultivation. I use a l-horse, 
12tooth cultivator; some use a spading harrow. 



WINTER MEETING. 287 

Mr. Boucher — The Planet, Jr., with a horse is the best cultivator. 
I don't like the one pushed by a man, unless it is some other man. 

Mr. Barnes of Kansas — One of the most important points is keep- 
ing the grapes. Our Iowa friend finds New York grapes now in the 
markets here at higher prices than we could get for our home grown 
grapes. Our grapes all mature too early when the weather is warm, eo 
we can't keep them. New York grapes ripen later when the nights are 
cooler. They put them in cool houses. 

Mr. Snodgrass — I propose to grow Moore's Early and get rid of 
them early in the season. I succeed in growing it. 

Mr. Bomberger — When Moore's is gone Worden is ready. It is 
nearly as large as Moore's, but they don't ripen entirely uniformly. 
Moore's all ripen at once. 

Prof. Whitten — The cause of the grape rot is very well known. It 
is a fungus disease, propagated by spores too small to be seen with 
the naked eye. Rotten grapes are full of them. They are found on 
the posts, old leaves and on the ground. On warm days in the winter 
they are being scattered. In spring they germinate very rapidly when 
conditions are right. It works in the leaves as well as in the fruit. It 
also goes into the vines. Spray with Bordeaux mixture to prevent it» 
We can keep grapes from rotting to a reasonable extent. We have 
110 varieties on the experiment grounds at Columbia. We sprayed 
four times, and practically kept off the rot. Spray first before the 
buds open in the spring ; second, after buds are open, before bloom- 
ing, and twice after blooming. Some varieties rot worse than others. 
Moore's, Worden and Concord can generally be saved by three spray- 
ings. 

Mr. Snodgrass — Herbemont is the best grape for white wine ; Nor- 
ton for red. 

Mr. Patterson — Our fruit building is on top of the ground, with- 
out any floor. The walls and roof are about one foot thick with five 
dead air spaces. It has a sky-light six feet square, and double doors. 
If we want to cool the house we open the sky-light and doors on cool 
nights in October. It is practically frost proof, but if we find the 
temperature going too low we use a stove. The cider from the culls 
paid for all the barrels and for picking the apples. We usually get 
about twelve and a half cents a gallon for vinegar. 

Mr. Gano — Some applemen sell their cider fresh every day in the 
city. 

Secretary Danlap — I wist to ask a question. You have some 
fruit-houses in the ground. I wish to know what effect the ground 
has on the keeping of the apples. The ground is usually about fifty 



288 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

degrees. Does not that temperature raise the temperature of the 
fruit ? 

Mr. Boucher — I have a little fruit-house holding eight hundred 
bushels built ou the ground right in the orchard, with walls about one 
foot thick, filled with saw-dust. It keeps apples all right. 

J. C. Evans — Mr. Dunlap wants to know the difference between 
houses above the ground and those under the ground as to keeping 
apples. Our experience is that an earthen wall will keep apples better 
than any other kind of wall. The earth absorbs the spores of the rot. 
We can regulate the temperature in either case. 

Mr. Dunlap — How do you keep the earth from falling in ? 

Mr. Evans — We set white oak posts and put black jack poles be- 
hind the posts. The cracks between the poles allow the earth to take 
up the rot spores. 

Question: What is the best way to dispose of the culls ? 

Secretary Goodman — The best way this year was to evaporate. 
Evaporated apples are bringing a good price. 

Question : What is the most rapid way of thinning fruit ? 

Secretary Goodman — Men's hands, and the surest way, too. 

Mr. Snodgrass — I employ women and girls. They are cheaper and 
better, too. 

A voice — Perhaps you don't pay them enough. 

Mr. Snodgrass — I pay them what they ask. 

Question : Name a good fruit or nut tree for wet places. 

Mr. Evans — The pecan. 

Mr. Bomberger — I grow native plums. I cut back the trees and 
prune out the weaker branches. This reduces the amount of fruit the 
trees will set. I also thin severely. Such treatment makes fine fruit 
and is also better for the tree. Does anyone know anything of the 
Mayflower plum ? 

Nobody knew anything of it. Some one suggested that it must 
be related to John Lewis Childs. 



NEW IDEAS IN POTATO CULTURE. 

There is an old saying that runs like this, " Try all things, and hold 
fast that which is good." 

But many have forgotten the first clause, and so only hold fast to 
the old methods that have been followed for years, regardless of the 
fact that the present is a time of great advancement, and that all lines 
of labor have been revolutionized by new inventions and discoveries. 



WINTER MEETING. 2S9 

The farmer and fruit-grower, of all men, should be the most pro- 
gressive and should most assuredly "Try all things, and hold fast that 
which is good." 

It has been one of my hobbies to try all things in my line, so far 
as it was in my power, and in doing so, I have spent much labor in 
testing hundreds of varieties of potatoes. I have also grown thousands 
of seedlings myself, and a few of which I am happy to say have proven 
to have merit, and have become quite generally known throughout the 
country. Others of my seedlings give much promise at the present 
time, that two of them have been named "Klondike " and "Yukon." 

But the object of this paper is not to speak of my successes and 
failures, but to tell you a few facts that I have dug out in my study of 
that greatest of food plants, the potato. 

First, I want to call your attention to the idea that has been grow- 
ing popular for several years in some sections, regarding what is known 
as Southern second crop seed. Many claim that such seed is even 
better than the Ii'I'orthern seed potatoes, which so many Southern plant- 
ers have been in the habit of purchasing each succeeding year. 

Now, I set out to discover if this was a fact, and if so, why it was 
so. If this second crop seed is better than all other seed, there must 
be some reason for its being so. I have never read or heard any rea- 
sonable explanation of the fact, and so have devoted considerable 
study to the matter, and believe that I have found the reason why it 
is better for seed, than much ripe stock, and am willing to admit that 
in part the claim is well founded. 

It is claimed that the so-called "second crop seed" will keep sound 
and firm until season for planting has arrived. This is true, and in this 
fact, I believe, lays the entire secret. 

I have discovered by continued experiments that when a potata 
is perfectly ripe, unless kept in practically cold storage, it will very 
soon begin to wilt. In other words, it evaporates apart of its mois- 
ture, thus leaving the. tuber shrunken and less fit for seed purposes;^ 
in the game way that a wilted cutting of currant or other plant grows 
less vigorously than an unwilted one. 

Repeated observation shows that a tuber that has not reached full 
maturity will retain its moisture, and for many months continue as firm 
and solid as when dug, under conditions where a ripe one will not* 
Such a potato often on being cut for seed, will crack ahead of the 
knife, it is so brittle, and the juice will run from it as from a newly dug 
tuber. It is in just the condition to give its sprouts the necessary 
amount of moisture to start a strong, thrifty plant suited to produce a 
bountiful crop. 
H— 19 



290 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

The fully ripened tuber on the other hand has already passed the 
prime of life and is on the decline, as soon as wilted. Its sprouts 
have not the necessary vitality to give them a proper start in life, any 
more than have the offspring of aged animals or the buds of a ehruken 
currant cutting. 

It is a well established fact in animal husbandry that the offspring 
of animals that have only reached the full flush of maturity are much 
thriftier than those of animals that have begun to go down the de- 
cline of life. The same law holds in the propagation of plants of all 
kinds; propagate from the strong, thrifty and robust, but not from the 
weakly declining plants that are withered or are approaching old L<ge. 

You never cut your grafts from old or shrunken wood, but from 
young, vigorous growth. Bear in mind the potato is not a seed, but 
is a swollen, underground stem, in which are stored up starch, .juices, 
etc., for the feeding of the young sprout. 

Perhaps you will say, why is not the fully matured tuber better 
than one half grown ? For certainly it would stand to reason that it 
would be better supplied with the necessary chemical constituents than 
the smaller, immature tuber can be. 

I say that, under right conditions, it is. But in order to retain this 
vigor of full maturity, you must at once, by some process, provide a 
method of suspending all life action. In other words, you must retard 
nature's plan. For in that plan, maturity once reached, then comes 
decay and the wasting away of old age. And with that comes the loss 
of vigor, and with this loss of vigor comes inability to produce vigor- 
ous and robust offspring. 

The fully matured potato, if it could be used soon after maturity, or 
kept from all contact with warm, dry air that would cause it to wilt and 
deterioate, is as good seed as can be had. But it is a fact that very few 
growers can, and still less do, give the proper care or have the neces- 
sary facilities for thus keeping their seed. Their mature seed is, there- 
fore, wilted, and for that reason a small tuber thajt has not reached full 
maturity and will not at once commence the downward run to old age 
and decay, is greatly to be preferred to a mature one that has already 
begun that decline. 

My observation has repeatedly shown that mature seed stock, 
which had been so kept as to be in prime condition at planting time, is 
as good, or better, than second crop or late crop seed. 

Central Wisconsin being too far north to successfully grow two 
crops of potatoes in a season, we have been experimenting with what 
we call a late crop. To get this we plant good, sound seed at intervals 
of a few days, up to as late as July 22. For some reason very early 



WINTER MEETING. 291 

planted potatoes are not a success with us, and our main crop is planted 
entirely in Jane. The past season we planted most of our crop be- 
tween June 8th and 22d, and I can assure you that I never saw so fine 
a crop before in my 20 years' experience as a potato crank. 

Tbe exhibit of potatoes on your tables from the lliverdale Seed 
Farm will, I am sure, convince you that our crop was all I claim for 
it. On June 29 and 30, on a piece of very poor sandy upland, we 
planted two acres which yielded 220 bushels of medium sized tubers. 
This was the earliest of our late crop. Our main crop, on river bot- 
tom land, run from 200 bushels per acre up to 433 bushels per acre 
without any special preparation of soil. 

We aim to plant our potatoes on soil with only ordinary prepara- 
tion, so that we know that the varieties that we advertise are well 
suited to the average farm method of cultivation. We have known 
of many varieties which would yield enormously on very rich, highly 
cultivated lands that were practically worthless for ordinary farm 
use. 

Our Wisconsin crop is planted so late that it matures late in the 
fall, and, kept in a good storage-house, our crop is like second crop 
«eed, and will keep much better than potatoes that ripen early and 
then lie through the long hot fall months. 

Ti^, our experimental plats, planted during July, we secured some 
■fine yields of smooth tubers about the size of hens eggs and larger, a 
sample of which you will find in our exhibit. These will make the best 
of seed, and we intend next season to plant a larger area during July, 
if the weather is suitable. We shall use that seed ourselves for part 
of our planting to further determine the merits of mature potatoes, 
when properly kept, compared with second, or late crop seed. 

There is a law of nature that is as unalterable as was the laws of 
the Medes and Persians, that all vegetation is at its greatest vigor in 
the colder part of its zone of growth. 

Perhaps I am wrong in applying this rule alone to vegetation, for 
without doubt the law applies as well to animal life as to the vegetable 
kingdom. We see it in the human race wherever we go. The people 
of the temperate zones have more energy, push and vigor than those 
of warmer climates. 

By repeated experiments we find seed potatoes conforming to this 
law. Northern grown seed, other things being equal, will always be 
preferable to that grown in a more southerly latitude. 

Of course Northern grown seed, to be at their best must be grown 
with care and a thorough understanding of the needs of the plants 
and after being grown, the crop must be harvested, cared for and 



292 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

shipped in a manner that will retain the full vigor and hardiness gained 
by its production in the North. 

HOW WE KEEP OUR POTATO CROP HEALTHY — SCAB AND ITS PRE- 
VENTION. 

I wish here to speak of two things that, although not exactly new^ 
as they have been recommended by oar Experiment Stations for sev- 
eral years, yet, are new to the great mass of potato-growers. I refer 
to the soaking of the seed in Corrosive Sublimate, as a preventive of 
the potato scab, and the spraying with Bordeaux mixture to prevent 
the early and late blights. 

No one should ever plant a field of potatoes without first soaking^ 
the seed in the Corrosive Sublimate solution ( 2 oz. of Corrosive Sub- 
limate to 16 gals, water). Even if the seed appears perfectly free from 
every trace of scab, soak it, as the germs of scab may be clinging to 
the skin of the tuber. The expense is small, and the remedy sure, if 
the treated seed is planted upon land free from the germs of the scab. 

HOW TO PREVENT BLIGHT. 

Bordeaux mixture is just as sure a remedy against blights as is- 
Corrosive Sublimate against scab. But one thing must be remembered, 
and that is that it is not a cure, but is a preventive. In using it yoa 
must commeRce early and apply it as often as necessary to keep every 
leaf coated with an armor plate of copper. Then the germs of the 
dreaded blight will not be able to gain entrance. Don't apply it once 
or twice and think that will do, as you will very likely to lose entirely 
the labor expended in the first applications. If you take up the battle 
you must keep it up until the season is over, or your labor may be m 
vain. In a wet season you may have to go over your field as often a» 
once a week, or even oftener. The only safe way is to keep that armor 
plate solid or the little foe may enter. In an ordinary season, four or 
five applications give very satisfactory results. 

POTATO SEEDLINGS. 

There is one other new idea that has been advanced by one who 
has had considerable experience as an originator and grower of many 
kinds of potatoes, that is so far in error that I wish to speak of it here. 
I refer to a theory expounded by E. S. Carman, the venerable editor of 
the " Rural New Yorker," who says : " That in growing seedlings, the 
best shaped tuber from the hill should be selected the first year, as a 
foundation for the new variety, and that it will follow that shape or 
type in the years to come." 



WINTER MEETING. 293 

It docs seem strange that a grower of such great experience should 
advance such a theory, as it is totally wrong. 

Each seed from the seed ball is an individual life germ, and in 
some respect differs from all other such life germs. The tubers pro- 
duced on the plant the first year, are, like those of each succeeding 
year, only a part of the plant. In other words, a swollen, underground 
stem with buds or eyes to carry on the propagation of the variety. 

I have often found that a seedling may, the first year, be long and 
slim, and in after years change its shape to an oval, liattened form, as 
seen in the samples of my seedling No. 99. 

Again a seedling may be nearly round the first year, especially if a 
late variety and not matured, and the next season may develope into a 
long, slim tuber. In fact, very little can be told as to the future ap- 
pearance and value of a seedling from its first year's growth, further 
than that a health}', vigorous grower with a limited number of smooth, 
well formed tubers of fair size may be expected to do even better the 
next year, and so on for several years to come. But often the expecta- 
tions are not realized, in the growing of seedlings, but nevertheless, no 
branch of horticulture has so much of pleasant anticipation as the 
originating of new varieties. 



DISCUSSION. 

Prof. Whitten — What is the condition of the tops of your late 
planted potatoes when frost comes ? 

Mr. Reed — The tops of our late potatoes were green as late as the 
10th of October this year, though other plants had been killed a month 
earlier. The potatoes were on the river bank. The water saved them. 
They are usually frozen down while green. 

Question: Has Mr. Reed found any beneficial results in getting 
potatoes for seed from the north or east of him ? 

Mr. Reed — No; 1 don't think it would be any advantage, for our 
climatic conditions for the potato are almost perfect. Our soil, a good 
sandy loam, is also an ideal potato soil. 

Mr. Murray — I like the paper very much. I think it pays us here 
in Missouri to get our seed potatoes from a climate north of us. We 
ought to get our seed of any plant from the country or locality where 
the plant reaches its highest development. 



29i STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



SEVENTY YEARS IN HORTICCTLTURE. 

My paper is quoted 50 years ago, but I will change it to 70, for I 
can well reroember that, when about seven years old, I saw the men 
bury some sweet pippin apples in the garden late in the fall. There 
were still some of the same kind of apples on the trees, which I 
gathered and buried also. Not as they did, but after my own plan? 
simply digging a hole in the ground, putting the apples in and cover- 
ing with earth. 

The following spring, when the other buried apples were taken out 
and used, and gardening commenced, I went into the garden just as 
they came across my apples, which 1 had forgotten. The first thing I 
was among the men claiming the fruit, which they refused to give me, 
and were not willing to give me even a part. Then the bugle sounded 
for battle. Whether it was a spade or rake that I made the attack 
with I don't remember, but do remember that some of them would 
have been hurt if my mother had not just then came upon the scene,, 
who accomplished a compromise by giving me half. 

And now I will relate a singular affair in relation to this apple. I 
had not seen one for 60 years until a few months ago a friend of mine,. 
U. J. Hutchinson, of Long Lane, Mo., sent me a specimen, which re- 
called the above affair, the first horticultural operation I recollect of- 

My early surroundings— I was born and mostly reared six miles 
southeast of Lmcaster City, Lmcaster county, P^nn. The house was 
about 60 feet long, built of limestone rock. The east end was three 
stories high, which was built on sloping ground, thus requiring terrace 
walls for the yard and girden. Southeast from the east side of the 
terrace wall there were two vines of golden chassaleas grapes that 
were laid down in winter and covered. In the spring they were tied 
up against the wall and trellised above. Had we then known how tO" 
avoid mildew and rot, these vines would have been a success, but as 
it was, we seldom got any ripe fruit. The last time we put them down,, 
when to be uncovered the next spring after, there was nothing left.^ 
The stump-tailed mice and rats had eaten root and vine, nothing left. 
On this terrace were apricot trees, which sometimes gave us fruit, but 
not often. In a corner of the garden was a purple magnum bonum 
plum tree, the fruit of which never ripened. We called it getting^ 
wormy, not knowing anything of the curculio then. In the house yard, 
when the ground was nearly bare, we had a prune tree, and a yellow 
gage, ihat seldom failed giving crops of superior fruit. I can remem- 



WINTER MEETING. 295 

ber how I used to stand on the porch during a thunder storm, when 
the ripe prunes were likely to fall, that when a tlash of lightning or a 
fallen prune would be located, when I would run out in the darkness 
that followed and usaally succeed in securing the prune. The getting 
wet was not taken into account. And here let me say that at this day 
after all our efforts, we have no plum to surpass the yellow gage in 
flavor. Some of the happiest of my days were spent there. In the 
month ot May, when the fruit trees were in bloom, the garden redolent 
with the fragrance of flowers; the birds singing all around, and I could 
look out over the orchard, the meadow, and a green tangled wild weed, 
it was my glory, even if there was no ( Old Oaken Bucket) hanging in 
the well. A never failing well at the house, and 40 yards down the 
slope was a noble spring which sent its water to the Peque creek 200 
yards oflF, and up which little stream little fish would come, some of 
which would take the underground passage up to the well, and would 
frequently be pumped out. 

Near our place lived two old bachelors. Each had his house- 
keeper and hired boy. The one a regular book worm, and called his 
big brother a fool — one was quite small and the other a large man. 
The big man was quite a horticulturist and had a garden of one-eighth 
of an acre, I think, in which he had all kinds of flowers. He paid 
particular attention to bulbs, and in June his garden was open to the 
whole community on Sundays, while they lasted. 

In no garden, in all my career, have I seen such a display of tulips 
and hyacinth beds, 100 feet long and 4 feet broad, as thick as they 
could all stand, of all colors and sizes. He had select fruit also, among 
which was what I now believe was the Herbemont grape, which ran 
over the apple trees in the orchard and bore bushels of grapes. Years 
after leaving Lancaster county I went back and got cuttings from 
every vine around there, hoping to secure the variety, but in vain. 
After coming to Missouri and finding the Herbemont, was satisfied that 
it was the long lost grape. 

This same man had wild geese, Chinese and common ones ; different 
kinds of ducks; both white and speckled Guina fowls and pea fowls. 

In April, 1837, we moved to Cumberland county, Pennsylvania* 
where my father bought two large farms, upon both of which were 
beautiful springs, one of which ran under our dwelling-house, and 
alongside of the spring I trained a red egg-plum tree against the wall 
of the house that bore crops of perfect fruit such as I have not grown 
since. 

Farming did not suit me, and I longed to grow trees and plants. 
A younger brother and I started a nursery, which we enlarged greatly. 



296 STATE HORTIOULTUKAL SOCIETY. 

wken I went to Lebanon county and started one myself. It was a fair 
success, and after building a cottage in the outskirts of North Leba- 
non and living there a few years, I bought 14 acres of land two miles 
northeast of town. There I had a collection of fruits that could not 
well be found elsewhere in those parts. There I raised the Louisa 
grape, a decided improvement on the Isabella, but the big growers 
pronounced it Isabella, and it never became popular. Some years 
after the Concord came out, and I bought a vine for $5; at the same 
time requested Mr. Bull, the originator, to send me some seeds of the 
fruit. He sent some, out of which the Marietta was raised ; also Eva, 
another white one, that was perhaps equal to the Martha. But 
after Mr. Knox had paid me $5 for the Martha, Eva was in a measure 
dropped. I am satisfied that Mr. Knox made $10,000 out of it. I 
never envied him in the least. A man once said I was a fool for sell- 
ing it at that price. A friend standing by remarked that he supposed 
friend Miller would make a fool of himself again in that way. ''You 
bet he would," was my reply. In 1857, joining the Bluffton Wine Com- 
pany when I came here, my tree and vine affairs were conducted for 
others, and the first season I grew about 70,000 plants. 

Soon I cut loose from the BlufTton Wine Company and worked 
for myself. Went into growing small fruits and trees. I had a good 
selection of strawberries, the seeds of which were scattered all around 
by the breeze, and one day, while plowiog in an old orchard, discov- 
ered a seedling, which I saw just in time to prevent covering with the 
plow. It was taken up and planted on a terrace east of my house, but 
a grub attacked it, and if I had not discovered it at the time, there 
would have been one popular strawberry less on the list. I am often 
asked why I gave such a noble fruit such a bad name. It was simply 
because when nearly all the roots were eaten off it still lived. One 
day I remarked that that plant is like the Indian chief, Capt. Jack 
( that was then giving our soldiers such trouble in the Lava beds in the 
west), and Capt. Jack shall be its name. Since then I have not 
brought out anything of much merit', but believe I have something fine 
in a seedling Cuthbert raspberry; have also a seedling Seckel pear 
tree that may bear next season ; a tree each of Gov. Wood and Napo- 
leon cherry that may bear next season. So it will be seen that I am 
still experimenting. 

I keep posted on the new grapes. Am disappointed in the Co- 
lumbia Imperial. Have two vines of Campbell's Early that can bear 
next year; have also planted three vines of the McPike grape and or- 
dered three vines of the Kentucky. I have the famous Soudan rasp- 
berry. Miller's Eirly Red and Cumberland, the latter the grandest of 



WINTER MEETING. 297 

all the blackcaps. These latter have fruited and promise great 
things. 

Coming to a late date, I will tell my last misfortune. Nearly an 
acre of strawberry plants set out in the fall of 1896, which were to be 
treated all summer, so as to make a big show next season, have all 
gone where the woodbine twineth. Am just waiting for a man to plow 
the whole thing under. How did this happen? some will ask, that a 
man like old Miller can fail thus? The answer is simply this, that 
when the better crops of berries were gathered, and the cultivation 
should commence, there was already a fair start of weeds, crab grass 
the leader; when rain after rain came, and the ground at no time tit to 
work properly; when the rains ceased, the weeds had encb a start that 
it would have been a useless job to clear them. The strawberry plants 
seemed to hold their own for a long time, and by mowing the grass 
down even with the plants, I hoped to carry them through. 

But when no rain fell for two months to amount to anything, and 
the mercury for days and weeks ranged from 90 to 100 degrees and 
more, they bad to give up. 

All I have lefc now is perhaps a few thousands of the newer 
variety, that were near the spring, and which I kept alive by carrying 
■water to them. Bui. will this stop me from growing strawberries'? .Not 
if I am spared. So long as able the band-spade, trenching-fork and 
trowel will be wielded. I feel like the late Mr. Muencb, who said he 
expected to die in the harness, and today it was fulfilled, for he was 
found dead in his vineyard with the prnning-shears at his side, as I 
have been told. 

Horticulture has its ups and downs like everything else, but if 
there is any occupation in life that gives more pleasure, I have not 
been able to discover it. Soon my time will come to be ferried over 
the dark stream, but one of my last wishes will be that this noble pur- 
suit of horticulture will receive the attention that it deserves. 

And now when we have all the new apples that we are so proud 
of, how many have we to surpass in real value the yellow BelMower, 
Sambo Ked Romanite, Winesap and. Newtown Pippin, which are about 
100 years old. 

Talk about a fruit running out, 1 don't believe it. It is the want 
of proper attention that causes the degeneracy. I have gathered as 
■fine Eomanites this season as ever I saw. Among my collection ex- 
hibited here are two new ones, that promise well. A sweet one that 
our late Brother Holman gave me some years ago, and the Lexington. 
'3^he latter on young trees in the nursery five years old. 

Sah'l Millek, Bluffton. 



298 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



Thursday, 8 p, m. 

Mr. Atwood, of Greene County — I feel that I must say something- 
of what the people of South Missouri are doing in the way of co-op- 
eration. We shipped this last reason four hundred cars of strawber- 
ries. We have thirty-seven associations all united in a larger associa- 
tion. Every association has made money by cooperation. Without 
co-operation the growers often lost. Twenty-one cars of strawberries 
shipped from Peirce City netted $1.01 per 24-quart crate. In Arkan- 
sas they have twenty-five associations, which are doing good work for 
the fruit-growers. We are going to associate in the shipping of apples 
and other fruits as well as strawberries. At times, before these as- 
sociations began their work, some cities would have a glut and others 
no fruit. For instance, eight cars of strawberries went to Pittsburgh. 
in one day and broke the market. This we must avoid. 

What Mr. Bell said reminds me of another thing. The United 
States Consul at Hamburg, Germany, informs our government that the 
German farmers make the beet sugar themselves by cooperation. If 
the farmers of this country succeed in making sugar they will have to> 
do it themselves. 

Song. 



INSECTS. 

Let me give you a general talk about insects, with the hope that 
you will take some of it home with you and learn something of insects^ 
All insects lay eggs, with two exceptions, the San Jose scale and a^ 
certain fly. These two never lay eggs. Insects are divided into two 
classes. In one class ihe young resemble the adult, as the grass hopper ;; 
in the other class the young have no resemblance to the adult. The 
young of this class are commonly called worms, as the apple-worm. 
We call them larvae. When the larvte is full grown it changes into a 
pupa or chrysalis, from which it emerges at the right season. As to- 
their method of feeding, insects are sucking or biting. Insects do not 
change from sucking to biting, or the reverse. A biting or chewing^ 
insect bites or chews in all its states, and a sucking insect remains a 
a sucking insect in all its stages. The first thing you ought to notice 
when an insect is troubling you is whether it is a biting or a sucking 
insect. Upon this point depends the remedy for it. The sucking in- 
sects stick their beaks through the tissues and suck the pure juices- 
from beneath. So no poison will kill them, for they do not get theit 



WINTER MEETING. 29^ 

poison which is on the outside of the plant tissues. Many miptakes 
are made aion<? this line. For sucking insects, nine times out of ten^ 
use kerosene emulsion, powdered tobacco, tobacco tea or pyrethrum. 
These substances must touch the insects, for they kill only by contact. 
If the insect you are dealing with is a biting insect, then you employ 
the arsenites, with the hope that they will eat it and be killed. For 
biting insects, I advise Paris green, rather than London purple. Most 
persons use London purple, but it is more variable in its composition 
than Paris green. It is only a by-product of other manufactures, and 
is not made for itself alone. Pure Paris green can be obtained on the 
market, though much of it is adulrerated. London purple is of such 
uncertain composition that you may spray with a certain result one 
time and a very different result at another time, or with no result 
whatever. Buy from reliable houses and insist on having pure goods.. 
When you are using arsenical substances, see that the mixture is con- 
stantly stirred. Do the work thoroughly. Many make the mistake 
of using the Bordeaux mixture against insects. It is a fungicide, and 
should never be used for insects. 

One of the first requisites in fighting insects is clean culture. 
Don't allow rubbish to accumulate any where. Such insects as the 
canker-worm can be kept down by cultivaiion, but they may get into 
your orchard from forest trees and other places. The most of our 
injurious insects lived upon other plants before they were found upoa 
our cultivated plants. For instance the Colorado potato beetle lived 
upon a nettle in its native habituals, but when it began to live upon the 
potato it multiplied and spread very rapidly, thriving better upon the- 
potato than upon its original food. Some of these insects have been 
discussed time and again, but it seems necessary to have line upon 
line, and precept upon precept. 

The codlin moth which makes our wormy apples is a small brown 
moth about one-third of a inch in expanse. It deposits its egg in the 
spring upon the little apple soon after the bloom drops. It soon 
hatches and works its way into the apple where it eats its fill, and then 
it drops to the ground to make its metar?norpho8i8, then it emerges 
from the ground a perfect insect, making the circuit in about thirty 
days. The first apple I picked up from the exhibits in this room has a 
codlin moth larva in it ; and these are selected apples. They look nice 
upon the outside, but many of them are bad inside. 

This moth deposits its eggs for a period of twenty days, and there 
are three broods overlapping; so it deposits eggs 'all summer long. 
We aim to kill the first brood only. It wont pay to spray for the 
second or third. Use one pound of Paris green and three pounds 



300 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

unslacked stone lime to one hundred and seventy-five gallons of water. 
Stronger than this it may injure your trees, weaker it will not kill the 
insect. Use a fine spray, soon after the blossoms have fallen, so the 
larva will get a little poison its first meal, spray again in nine or tea 
days. If it rains soon after you spray, repeat the spraying and don't 
count that time. If the work is well done you can kill fifty per cent 
the first year ; seventy-five the second year, and ninety the third year. 
Stock eating apples as they fall will kill the worm, that may be in the 
apple, but many of the worms emerge from the apples before they fall; 
so picking up the apples will not prevent them from increasing. 

Borers are two kinds, round-headed and flat-headed. The former 
does the greatest amount of damage. The round-headed borer is 
hatched from eggs deposited at the base of the tree near the ground. 
The first yeju- it stays In the cambium layer ; the next year it eats into 
the wood, and the third year emerges in the beetle form. What can 
we do to prevent it from harming our trees'? Washes, wrappers and 
cutting it out are the remedies employed. The best way is to combine 
all three of these methods. I will not discuss these washes; formulas 
can be found in the reports of this Society, in farm papers, bulletins 
from the stations and other places. Some succeed with these washes, 
others fail. If only a part of the trees in an orchard are washed, they 
may lay their eggs in the others. If your trees are all washed and your 
near neighbors are not, they may pass your trees and lay their eggs in 
his. These insects are bound to lay their eggs, and finding no other 
suitable place, they may bore through the wash and put their eggs in 
the tree, or they may enter at a point higher up the tree. 

The woolly aphis north of here does but little damage ; south it 
does very much. It works almost entirely upon the roots of apple 
trees and causes knots. These knotted roots decay, the tree loses its 
anchor on the ground and blows over. They are wingless, and bring 
forth living young. In the fall they lay eggs to carry them over the 
winter. At certain season we have winged forms which fly to other 
trees and infest them. It works under the ground so that we can not 
reach it with any reasonable amount of kerosene emulsion. Tobacco 
tea is good, so far as it goes, but powdered tobacco is the best remedy. 
It costs about flfteen dollars per ton. To apply it take away some 
four inches of soil, put in the tobacco and put the dirt back again. 
Rains will send the nicotine down there and kill the aphis. 

The common aphis, which attracted so much attention last spring, 
infects the buds and leaves early in the season, and sometimes causes 
the leaves to rot. They bring forth living young in the summer and 
lay eggs in the fall, and the fact that they bring forth living young is 



WINTER MEETING. 301 

the reason they irmltiply so rapidly. They are very easily controlled 
by spraying with kerosene emulsion. One spraying will usually do, 
especially if tobacco is added to the emulsion. 

If any of you are troubled by insects and don't know how to fight 
thenj, write to me, and send your name to the Experiment Station at 
Columbia and you will get a large portion of the necessary information, 
in the bulletins. J. M. Stedman. 



DISCUSSION. 

Mr. Barnes of Kansas — I want to show you how gradually these 
insects spread over the country. There are 105 counties in Kansas, 
but some of the western counties don't grow much fruit. I have here 
a statement of the insects in Kansas, and you may take it for granted 
that your State is no better off than Kansas in this respect. I have 
reports from 35 counties ; 31 report codling moth; 14 canker worm; 

31 ; 18 curl leaf ; 2d black aphis; four green aphis, and 13 woolly 

aphis. 

Mr. Patterson — Last spring we noticed the canker worm in our 
orchard, and before we could get ready to spray, some of the trees 
looked as if they were burned. Three ounces London purple to the 
barrel did no good. We doubled the dose; it did no good. We then 
used one pound to the barrel, adding two pounds of lime, and killed 
them by the million. One week later you could not find a single worm. 
We know it killed them for the ground was covered with them. 

Prof. Stedman — The chances are the London purple was adulter- 
ated to some extent. Mr. Patterson may try such a strong mixture 
again and kill his trees, or ruin them for one season. The proportion 
I gave will never fail if the Paris green is pure. I will give a case 
from Alabama: A man failed in the use of Paris green lipray to kill 
some insects, and wrote me a letter that would not add much to ray 
reputation if published. Finally I wrote for a sample of the Paris 
green and had it analyzed by the station chemist. There was no trace 
of poison in it. It was made of plaster of Paris, colored with indigo 
and Chrome yellow. This is an extreme case, but you will find all 
grades of impurities. 

Music. 



SOME CHOICE FRUITS FOR HOME CULTURE. 

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen — When your committee so 
honored me as to request me to write a paper for your convention, I 
consented with the usual conceit of an amateur, little realizing the 



302 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

enormity of the task I was taking upon myself until I began to cast 
about in my mind to find something that I really knew about horticul- 
ture; and now, while I blush to admit it, my knowledge may be classed 
as "News in a nut-shell," a hazelnut shell at that. Although I cannot 
boast much knowledge of the culture of fruit, I can tell you of some 
very satisfactory varieties to grow for family use. 

Your committee very kindly encouraged me by telling me that 
nothing of a technical nature would be expected of me, so, "being a 
Methodist," I guess I cannot do better than to "give you my experience." 

When we located in our little subarban home, six years ago last 
month, I was the proverbial "bundle of nerves" that our "Lords of 
creation" so delight in calling us weaker vessels (and I think I'm right 
nervy yet to undertake this herculean lask), so it goes without saying 
that I spent a very dismal winter, fall of tears and regrets that I ever 
gave my consent to such a dreadful move. 

But with the coming of spring I felt my courage rising with the 
mercury, and by the time the trees were full of bloom and beauty my 
interest had grown into enthusiasm ; nerves were less predominant in 
my physical make-up, and as the showery days of April gave place to 
the soothing, sunny days of May, a daily "communing with nature," 
often by means of hoe and rake, gave added health and strength and 
ambition, and I became an ardent lover of "all the green things grow- 
ing." 

Our home is the north half of a square in Northeast Moberly, con- 
sequently is level prairie land, but it has been abundantly enriched 
and has ;^ielded most generously for our care. 

From the coming of the earliest gooseberry to the late October 
peach, we are not without fruit from "our own vine and fruit tree," if 
not "fig-tree." 

The first requisite for good fruit is good stock. 

The person with only a few town lots at his disposal can, least of 
all, afford to plant cheap or unreliable stock ; for a vine or tree of in- 
ferior fruitage or scant production will occupy just as much precious 
space and requires just as diligent care as a tree or vine of good stock* 
and your harvest will be very much mingled with disappointment and 
discouragement. While the extra dimes paid for reliable stock will 
bring in returns long before you ever taste a bite, just in the pleasure 
you have in watching the growth and development of what you know 
will be luscious fruit in its season. 

To begin with the gooseberry — three Houghton's and three Down- 
ing's supply my family^ and a good many of my neighbors, with all the 
pies, tarts and sauce that we could wish. 



WINTER MEETING. 303 

Last year, much to the amusement of the head of-the-house, I in- 
"vested in a half-dozen of what was called the golden sweet gooseberry, 
l^ot infrequently I was treated to the remark : " Nobody but a goose 
would expect to find a sweet gooseberry." But I am pleased to report 
that I gathered a box of large, finely-flavored citron-yellow, sweet ber- 
ries, from thrifty young bushes that promise me a good yield for next 
year. 

Of currants the Cherry and Dutch are my favorite. I have tried 

Fay's Prolific, but with poor success. All, however, were this summer 

^consigned to the flames, as the best known remedy for San Jose scale, 

which Prof. Stedman and Mr. Sinnock discovered on my currants this 

spring. 

A strawberry bed is the hardest of all to decide on. There are 
so many varieties, and good ones too, that it is difficult to decide on a 
few for a small bed. Bat fifty each of Orescent, Haverland, Lovett, 
Timbrell and Gandy, will supply you berries in abundance for four 
weeks — which will bring you right into raspberry season. 

Of the blackcaps, Gregg and Doolittle are perfectly satisfactory 
to me, while Cuthbert and Marlboro are my especial favorites, and this 
year I planted a few Golden Queens by way of variety. 

Of blackberries. Brie and Taylor are both good berries, but the 
Taylor is the largest and best flavored berry with us. 

We have had poor success with the Wineberry and Loganberry, 
and were not enough impressed with their merits to care to spend 
time and dimes on them again. 

Two Early Kichmond and half dozen common dark cherries have 
furnished us an abundance of fruit for our own use, for several years, 
besides adding quite a little sum to the family purse. 

After the cherry comes the purple plum — Abundance — of which 
we have three trees. 

This is the prime favorite from the head-of-the-house to the wee tots. 
So we take especial pains to secure their luscious fruit. And we find 
that spraying with Bordeaux mixture aids very materially in keeping 
the fruit on the tree. 

Of peaches we have one, Amsden's June, which ripens in July and 
is of rather uncertain quality, but is a peach nevertheless ; one Cham- 
pion, one Crosby, one Crawford's late, and another late, an October 
seedling of excellent quality, but, unfortunately, of which I know no 
name. Our decided preference is for Champion, which I consider the 
best all-around peach that has ever come under ray observation. Of 
large, uniform size and shape, delicious flavor and exquisite color, it 
is certainly an ideal fruit for family use. 



304 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

My experience with pears has been limited and not particularly^ 
successful. Our trees suffered from blight two years ago, and have 
never become thrifty. Although not in prime condition, we had some 
very fine pears this fall. Our favorites are Seckel, Sheldon and Bart- 
lett. We have Duchess and Keiffer, but they have never fruited. 

The free-stone Damson gives best satisfaction and is most sala- 
ble. One Siberian crab and one quince are desirable for jellies and 
pickles. Apricots with us have proved a " delusion and a snare." 
They are thrifty, symmetrical, beautiful trees, but leave nothing but 
leaves. 

The next luxury that has become a necessity, the grape, is so uni- 
versally grown and enjoyed that " little may I grace its cause in speak- 
ing for it." For me nothing can rival the matchless old Concord* 
Moore's Early and Worden are good, and as a white, Niagara suits me. 
There are several very desirable varieties where one has room for a 
number of vines, but for a small place I prefer to stick to the old true 
and tried Concord as a main dependence. 

Apples ? I, for one, would profit by the experience of our ma- 
ternal ancestress of ages ago. 

Let the " head-of-the-house" provide his own apples. Buy them 
of Brother Boucher or some other brother. Then, if he gets a core in 
his throat, he can't point his thumb over his shoulder at me and say r 
"The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave of the tree» 
and I did eat." 

I would leave apples to orchardists (unless it would be one Early 
Harvest, or red June for the little people). 

Mrs. H. V. Estill, Moberly. 



SAP MOVEMENT IN PLANTS. 

It is remarkable how many vague notions prevail regarding the 
"rise" and "fall" and "flow" of sap in trees as the expression goes. It 
is still more remarkable how nearly correct some of these notions are 
and how correctly experience has taught the cultivator to apply methods 
of treatment that bear a direct relation to this so-called "mysterious 
movement of sap in plants." Comparatively few cultivators of fruit- 
trees have ever gained a thorough understanding of the relation of 
root, stem and leaves in drinking in and digesting the crude or raw sap 
and in distributing it to the growing parts of the tree. Nevertheless, 
the skillful orchardist is able to successfully graft, bud, prune, to in- 
crease the size of his grapes, peaches and other fruits by girdling the 



WINTER MEETING. 305 

branches, and to apply many other methods of treatment which bear 
directly upon this subject. A thorough understanding of the move- 
ment of sap is of great advantage, however. It is hoped that the fol- 
lowing may contain some hints that may enable the cultivator to better 
investigate this subject for himself and to better understand the why 
and wherefore of it. 

For practical purposes let us consider the tree as consisting of 
root, stem and leaves. The stem is composed of a central pith, out- 
side of this the wood, between the bark and wood, is the growing 
layer and outside this is the bark. These different parts are made up 
of small hollow cells, some of them are nearly spherical, and others, 
particularly those of the wood, are long and tube like. 

The crude sap is taken in through tiny root hairs, which are very 
abundant and may sometimes be seen with the naked eye along the 
growing tips of the tiny roots or rootlets. These root hairs are com- 
paratively short lived. New ones are continually being formed near 
the tip of the rootlet as it increases in length, and the older ones 
farther back disappear. Being very delicate, they are also easily in- 
jured. Since the plant relies mainly upon these root hairs for taking 
up the sap from the soil, it is essential that in transplanting tender 
seedlings, these root hairs should not be injured more than is neces- 
sary. Many of them are broken and left in the soil in removing the 
plant, and exposure to drying atmosphere very soon kills them. If a 
root is broken off it can take in some moisture through the wound 
just as a cut flower in a vase of water can take up moisture through the 
cut end of the stem. Transplanted plants are liable to wilt for a time, 
until new root hairs can form in sufficient numbets to take up the 
requisite supply of moisture. 

The leaves bear much the same relation to the tree that the 
stomach and lungs do to the animal. When the sap is taken up by the 
roots it is carried to the leaves and there digested in the presence of 
the green coloring matter. JSTone of the crude sap can in any way pro- 
mote growth until it has thus been acted upon in the leaves. It is 
essential to remember that it passes upward through the sap wood. 
This may be shown by the fact that if a ring of bark is taken off around 
the trunk, laying bare the wood, the leaves above this girdle will not 
wilt, but will still be supplied with moisture. This is true in hollow 
trees, in which the pith and heart would have rotted away. In the 
leaves (and incidentally in some green-colored stems) the food materials 
are digested, and most of the water of the sap is evaporated into the 
air. The digested food i8 then distributed, in the growing layer, to all 
H— 20 



306 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

parts of the tree, where it promotes growth, some of it finding its way- 
back to the tips of the roots, whence the crude sap started upward. 

To increase the size of the fruit of a branch, the branch is some- 
times girded by the removal of a ring of bark one-half inch to one inch 
wide. As has been explained, this does not in any way interfere with 
the passage of the crude sap into the branch, but since the girdle de- 
stroys the growing layer, none of the digested food can pass down- 
ward below this girdle. For this reason the food digested in the leaves 
of the girdled branch remains to nourish the branch and its fruit, when 
normally, a part of it should be carried back to help nourish the trunk 
and root system below. When a branch is girdled in this way, the 
extra food supply soon forms an enlargement above the girdle and 
new tissue begins to grow downward, so the girdle, if not too wide, is 
often entirely healed over in a few weeks. This healing process takes 
place from above, downward, the branch immediately below the girdle 
not increasing in size or showing much ability to heal the wound. The 
fruit on branches judiciously girdled grows much larger and ripens 
earlier than that on branches which are not girdled. Except in the 
hands of the skillful horticulturist this girdling is a dangerous practice, 
since the parts below the girdle are not properly nourished. 

If no growth can take place until the sap supplying it is digested 
in the leaves, the question naturally arises, how does a deciduous tree 
start into growth, and in some cases put out its flowers before its 
leaves form in spring. The tree provides for this emergency by digest- 
ing and storing up abundant food supply before it sheds its leaves in 
autumn. This food supply is stored up mainly in the form of starch, 
and is particularly abundant near the buds of the new twigs. Some 
species store up a great quantity of it at the crown, just below ground, 
and are thus enabled to throw up sprouts from below ground in case 
the main plant is eaten ofif by animals or injured in any way. Some- 
times the roots become very fleshy with this store of nutriment. The 
ability of a tree to leaf out more than once in spring, providing its first 
crop of leaves are destroyed by insects or by frosts, depends very 
largely upon the abundance of this reserve supply of digested food. 
As a rule a tree exhausts this food supply by the time, or even before 
it comes into full leaf. As soon as new, green leaves are formed they 
begin to digest food for their own growth and the growth of the tree. 
If the leaves are stripped from a tree in midsummer it is not likely to 
have a sufficient reserve supply of food to leaf out and become suffi- 
ciently well nourished to pass the winter and put out again the next 
spring. If it is defoliated in very early spring it usually has sufficient 
food supply to recover and live. It will be seen, however, that it is 



WINTER MEETING. 307 

highly important that the leaves should be kept in a healthly, growiog 
condition, and that iujary to them weakens the tree. 

The fact that the removal of healthy leaves, in summer, has a 
weakening effect, should govern, in a measure, our methods of prun- 
ing. It is a well known fact among horticulturists that pruning in 
winter favors vigorous wood growth and that pruning in summer op- 
poses vigorous growth. This has given rise to the familiar maxims 
"prune in winter for wood and in summer for fruit." The somewhat 
weakening effect of summer pruning ( which removes leaves ) is likely 
(in common with any other practice that slightly checks wood growth) 
to stimulate in the tree an abundant setting of fruit buds. If a part 
of the branches of a tree are removed in winter, the large supply of 
starch stored up in the roots and trunk has a smaller number of buds 
left to push into growth in spring, consequently each bud receives a 
greater supply. After growth starts, the large root system also ap- 
plies is uaabated energies to fewer branches and they are stimulated 
into utilizing a greater amount of sap, and consequently into more rapid 
wood growth. 

A wound heals by the growing layer lapping over and covering it. 
Since this covering for the wound is produced by food brought down 
from the leaves, between the bark and sap wood, wounds heal most 
rapidly from above, downward. If the top of a small tree is cutback, 
it should be cut just above, and slopiog downward away from a bud. 
If the part cut away has branches, the cut should be made just above 
a branch, so the leaves of this branch may digest and bring down the 
nourishment to cause the healing of the wound. 

Different methods of cutting trees and branches on the station 
grounds last year show that where a bare stub is left above a bud or 
branch, the end of this stub will not heal over, while if there is a grow- 
ing branch just at the wound, this branch will afford the material for 
quickly healing the wound. In removing a side branch, if a knot or 
stub is left it will not heal over until the tree has increased in diameter 
sufficiently to lap over it. It is best then to cut the branch well in, so 
the growing layer of the trunk can quickly begin to cover the wound. 
A branch usually has a bulge where it joins the main tree. Hence cut 
close to the tree the wound will be larger than if cut a little way out, 
and at right angles to the branch. Repeated trials last summer showed 
that the larger wounds made by cutting close to the trunk, healed most 
rapidly. J. C. Whitten, Columbia, Mo. 



308 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



DISCUSSIO?^. 

Secretary Dunlap — Everyone here is a horticalturist or a con- 
sumer of horticultural products. I will call your attention to some- 
thing for you to think about. I noticed it in going about the state of 
Illinois last fall. I found some apples very much inferior to others in 
quality. In some orchards the apples were only half-size. In other 
orchards the outside rows had nice apples, while the inside trees bore 
very inferior fruit. In early days shelter belts were considered neces- 
sary. My father planted a shelter-belt of soft maple about two rods 
in width. There was never any fruit upon those trees to amount to 
anything. Last year I saw an orchard with protection, but with a 
break through which the wind swept. The protected part had no fruit 
while the open part had plenty. Close planting will make your orchard 
a continuous shelter. Such orchards don't have proper air drainage.^ 
I know a man in Illinois who set his trees Id feet apart each way. I 
think he promised to thin them out when they began to get too thick^ 
though he never did it. It is like the promises of politicians before 
election day. I think it is better to set your trees as far apart as you 
wish them to be when they are 25 years old. 

I invite you to attend the meeting of the Illinois society, between 
Christmas and New Years' day. 

Mr. Reed of Wisconsin — I think it would be a good thing if those 
persons who read papers before such associations as this would bring 
duplicate copies, for the reporters of the press are always glad to get 
them and their publication would give you enough free advertising to 
pay you for making the copies. 



THE POSSIBILITIES OF THE OZARK HILLS, AS REGARDS 
THEIR ADAPTATIOI^T TO SUCCESSFUL FRUIT 

CULTURE. 

The Ozark region is not strictly speaking a mountainous country ; 
the Ozark mountains, so called, being in general merely an elevated 
plateau, in fact wanting most of the district characteristics that distin- 
guish real mountains. The table lands of the Ozark rarely exceed 1,600 
in heighth. These elevated lands situated ia Southwest Missouri and 
Northwest Arkansas may be estimated to embrace an area of about 
40,000 square mile. More than one-third of this area, at least 10,000,000 
acres remain unimproved, producing little revenue to the State and 
less to the owner. 



r 







^'•^ 






o 



H 

o 

Q 
< 
o 

o 



yrf'l 



*? ,-*^ 




WINTER MEETING. 309 

These high lands are not as a whole attractive to the eye of the 
agriculturist; much of the surface is too rolling and broken for exten- 
flive farming. 

In the interest of the State of Missouri and Arkansas, and 
especially in the interest of horticulture, the question remains to be 
answered, can these ten to twelve million acres of rough, rocky, unim- 
proved lands be protitably utilized in the cultivation of fruits for the 
markets of the world ? Before giving a final answer to this question 
let us briefly enumerate some of the peculiar advantages that this 
region possesses and state why it is thought that these lands have all 
the essential elements necessary to constitute a favorable location for 
successful and profitable fruit culture. 

These lands have the requisite climate and temperature, as they 
are located geographically between 35° and 39° north latitude. 

We find that they are in the same latitude as the famous fruit dis- 
tricts of Central and Southern California, more than 3° south of the 
most southern point of Italy and many degrees south of the vine-clad 
hill of the German Rhine. 

These points are mentioned in comparing their location with the 
Ozark region because they are each in their way celebrated for their 
fruits. Every country has its specialities; even the Arctic regions 
produce seals, furs and feathers in abundance; stony Arabia produces 
more than 100 varieties of the date palm and perhaps the best coffee 
in the world. 

The sandy, almost desert lands along the coast of Florida, pro- 
duce oranges, lemons and other semi-tropical fruits in abundance. 
The soil about Los Angeles and Fresno, California, where citrons and 
vinous fruits arrive at such high perfection is so sandy that it is unfit 
for general agriculture. The Ozark hills, although lying in the same 
latitude with California, will not produce successfully all the tropical 
fruits, because the conditions are dissimilar; their elevation is greater 
than the coast of Southern California, and unlike it they have no large 
body of warm water near to modify the temperature. The horticultur- 
ist here mu'5t per force content himself with the fruits and vegetables 
indigenous to the south temperate zone. 

There are some peculiar advantages that may be considered here 
that are of especial benefit to the fruit-raiser in the Ozark hills. Lying 
well south they have long seasons of warmth, while their moderate 
elevation tempers the fierce rays of the sun in the heated season and 
prevents premature development of vegetation in the spring ; this 
fact, taken in connection with that other, that these lands are sur- 
rounded by valleys on all sides, by the Arkansas and its tributary val- 



310 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

leys on the south and west, and by the great Missonri and Mississippi 
valleys on the north and south. These two conditions combined con- 
stitute an essential element in climate and temperature to the horti- 
culturist, in this, that the warm air rising frooi the surrounding valleys 
and wafted by the winds that inequalities of the earth's surface always 
create, these moist, warm asceading vapors from the lower bottoms 
incline to spread out as they rise, enveloping the higher grounds and 
contribute in securing immunity from untimely frosts. Admiting these 
claims to be well founded, the climatic condition of the Ozarks i& 
favorable to horticulture. 

We now come to consider the soil and its adaptability to fruit 
culture. 

It may be questioned if thes'^ gravelly hillsides and rocky ridges 
possess sufficient fertility and the soil contains the necessary elements 
to grow fruit in paying quantities. 

We may say to the doubting : Look ! see the record of nature 
impressed in indellible lines upon the hillsides and on to the hilltops^ 
up even to the highest range. Behold the great variety of forest trees 
with stout, spreading branches, sturdy trunks and great roots thrust 
deep through the gravelly surface far down into the red marley sub- 
soil below. These trees cover the sides and crown the summits of 
the highest ridges; below them grow numerous species of shrubs, 
grasses, plants and flowers, also, several varieties of native grapes^ 
some tiny and so dwarfed that they could be potted for house plants, 
others of enormous size climb to the top of the highest trees, embrac- 
ing their trunks and embowering their branches. 

With this record before us who will deny that nature has decreed 
that berries, grapes and the larger fruits will grow abundantly on these 
wooded hills when men with willing minds and strong arms sweep off 
the forest growth, break up the soil, plant, protect and nourish these 
good gifts of the Bountiful Creator. 

In conclusion it may be interesting to state some facts that ob- 
servation and experience have taught us in regard to what has already 
been accomplished in fruit-growing on the broken lands. It may also 
be useful to point out instances where mistakes have been made, as 
we learn wisdom, or should do so, by our failures. It was a mistake 
in the early settler to plant his best wheat and corn lands in his narrow 
hollow in orchard when he had plenty of rough land near that was bet- 
ter fruit land. Again it was a great mistake to plant apple trees and 
pasture the land without cultivation ; the stock had the best chance of 
growth in the arrangement. But men that have planted rough lands 
to orchards and given them proper care and intelligent cultivation 



WINTER MEETING. 311 

have been amply paid for their investment. Numerous parties have 
sold their fruit for more from a few acres than their farms were valued 
at by the assessor. The tine, gravely soil with rich red clay subsoil 
so common to the Ozark mountains produces all the fruits indigenous 
to the temperate zone with less care, more certainty, of larger size, 
higher color, and richer flavor than any other part of the world. The 
more than 10,000,000 acres of unimproved lands of the Ozark range 
suitable for commercial fruit farms will in the near future fill and con- 
trol the markets of the world. 

Geo. Bill, Bentonville, Ark. 



ON OBITUAUY. 

AVhereas, Since the last meeting of the Missouri State Horticultural Society our 
brother and friend, W. N. Se wall of Carthage, Jasper county, Missouri, has rested from 
his labors and passed to the beyond to enjoy the rewards of a well-spent life. It again be- 
comes the duty of our Society to set apart a page of Its minutes to the memory of one of 
our faithful members. Brother Sewall was born in Jacksonville, 111. , February 11, 1832, 
and passed away at his home In Carthage on the 29th day of September, 1897, having 
reached the age of 65 years and 7 months. 

He came to Missouri In 18S5, since which time he has followed the pursuit of horticul- 
ture, and by his upright life and untiring energy held a prominent place among the busi- 
ness men of his community. Brother Sewall early in life united with the Presbyterian 
church, of which he was a consistent member until his death. 

The deceased was a most devoted and loving husband and father, and the welfare of 
others was always uppermost in his thoughts, proving that his life was not lived for him- 
self alone, but found its satisfaction In ministering to those around him; therefore, be It 

Resolved, That in the death of Brother Sewall the Missouri State Horticultural Society 
has lost one of its most faithful and worthy members. 

Resolved, That these resolutions be placed upon the minutes and a copy of the same be 
forwarded by the Secretary to his family, with whom we sincerely sympathize In their sad 
bereavement. Henry Schnell, 

A. Nelson, 
F. H. Spbakman, 
• Committee. 



REPORT OF AWARDING COMMITTEE — SPECIAL MENTION. 

Your committee wish to call the attention of the Society to the 
following exhibits, which we think of interest and importance to the 
fruit-grower: Among the most promising seedling apples we notice 
one presented by Mr. A. Nelson, fair size, bright red apple; quality 
very fair ; indicates good keeper. 

Mr. C. C. Bell presents one seedling; resembles the York Imperial 
in shape and color; perhaps not so good keeper as York Imperial. 

Same party presents a yellow sweet apple, good size and good- 
quality. We are favorably impressed with this last specimen. We 
also believe all these varieties are worthy of trial. 



312 STA.TE HORTICULTURAL SOCIEIY. 

The Experimental Station of Columbia University have on exhi- 
bition two dozen jars of grapes, mainly new and promising varieties ; 
50 varieties of new seedling strawberries, originated by said station ; 
10 varieties of cherries ; also apples and other fruits, showing the 
value of the different strengths of formalins used in the preserving of 
such fruits. This process indicates a very successful method of pre- 
serving fruits in their natural appearance. 

J. W. Stanton, Chairman, Eichview, 111. 



FAREWELL. 

Mr. Barnes of Kansas — I have had great pleasure in meeting with 
you. I will meet again with you whenever duty does not call me else- 
where. I again invite you to come over the line to the Kansas meet" 
ing. 

President Evans — On behalf of the horticulturists I again thank 
the people of Moberly for the way they have treated us. We have 
had a large attendance, good order, and we are going away well 
pleased. 

Motion to adjourn by Sam'l Miller. Carried. 



THE SAN JOSE SCALE IN MISSOUEI. 

( Aspldlotus pernlclosus, Comst.) 
SUMMARY OF RESULTS. 

The investigations and experiments conducted by this Station dur- 
ing the past two years on the San Jose scale have given results which 
are briefly summarized as follows : 

I. The San Jose scale has been found infesting twenty private 
orchards in Missouri, some of which are already completely ruined, 
while others have only part of the trees beyond recovery, provided 
they be attended to at once. 

II. Thirty suspected private orchardshavenotyet been inspected, 
and it is probable that some of these will be found to be infested, thus 
swelling the number of infested orchards beyond the twenty now known. 

III. The scale has not been found infesting any nurseries within 
this State, although two nurseries have infested orchards within one 
half mile. 

IV. In every known case the infection was introduced, uncon- 
sciously, on nursery stock from one or the other of two New Jersey 
nurseries with one exception, and that came from Pennsylvania. 



WINTER MEETING. 313 

V. While in most cases the scale was introduced from four to 
seven years ago, one infection was introduced but two years ago. 

VI. The San Jose scale is distributed easily on nursery stock, 
cuttings, cions, buds, etc.; and naturally spreads from tree to tree and 
from orchard to orchard by birds and insects. 

VII. In some localities in Missoari not only orchard fruit trees, 
but shade and ornamental trees, osage orange hedges and some forest 
trees are now infested as a result of the natural distribution of the 
insect from the infested orchards. 

VIII. The San Jose scale can best be killed in orchards by the 
use of whale-oil soap. The tree should first be severely pruned and 
then thoroughly washed or sprayed on all sides with two pounds of 
whale-oil soap dissolved in one gallon of hot water. At least two appli- 
cations are necessary and three are preferable. The first application 
should be made shortly after the leaves have fallen, the second some 
time during the winter and the third in the spring before the buds 
swell. If only two applications can be made, the first and third are to 
be used — namely, the fall and spring applications. Hydrocyanic acid gas 
is practically the only other safe remedy, but this is more troublesome 
and expensive than the whale-oil soap method except for nursery stock. 

IX. Spray pumps to be used for the application of hot whale-oil 
soap should have metal valve, since the soap destroys leather and rub- 
ber rapidly. 

X. Do not be deceived and try to kill the San Jose scale during 
the summer by the use of ordinary insecticides, such as kerosene 
emulsion, etc. Use whale-oil soap, and use it only during the dormant 
state of the tree. 

GENERAL DISCUSSION. 

Two years ago the Department of Entomology of the Missouri 
Agricultural Experiment Station was established, and one of the first 
investigations undertaken was in reference to the San Jose scale, which 
up to that time had not been observed within the State limits, but 
which from its importance justified immediate attention, especially 
since it was being found in states east of us. 

Since nurseries are the source from which the greatest danger 
could come, the principal nurseries were visited and inspected, to- 
gether with some of the larger commercial orchards. The result 
showed that at least the nurseries of Missouri were probably free from 
this dreaded insect pest, while one private orchard was found to be in- 
fested. But since the inspection of private orchards throughout the 
State would be an expensive and tedious operation, it was thought 
best to issue a circular of information in regard to the San Jose scale ; 



314 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

and to distribute it to the horticulturists with the hope that by calling 
attention to the damage that would result from the presence of this 
insect, and by describing and illustrating it people owning infested 
trees would recognize it and take means to exterminate the eame, and 
inform the station of the infection. Strange as it may seem, not a 
single infection was reported as a direct result of the circular; but 
incidentally through correspondence this station located three private 
orchards that were badly infested. 

Having thus proven the presence of the San Jose scal'e within 
Missouri, and having traced the source of the infection to two New 
Jersey nurseries, these two nurseries were asked to furnish a list of 
Missouri customers to whom nursery stock had been shipped during 
the time their nurseries were, unknown to them at the time, infested. 
They kindly complied with the request, which resulted in three hun- 
dred and ten names. Circular letters were then mailed to each person, 
and the reports received were culled in order to separate the more 
probable infested localities, and lessen the time and expense of a per- 
sonal inspection. The Legislature having failed to appropriate funds 
($1,000 was asked for) for the San Jose scale investigation and exter- 
mination, the State Horticultural Society gave $200 toward the work. 
The suspected orchards were therefore inspected as far as the funds 
at our command would permit, and as a result of the inspection twenty 
private orchards were found to be infested, while thirty suspected or- 
chards remain uninspected, which, if they could be visited, would, no 
doubt, add to the list of those already known. 

Some of the infested orchards are now completely ruined, while 
others may be saved in part provided immediate and strenuous efforts 
be made to exterminate the scale. In the majority of infested locali- 
ties the scale can now be exterminated for a comparatively small sum 
of money; but in other places the insect has spread over such a wide 
area, and infests so many ornamental, shade and forest trees, as well 
as fruit trees and bushes, that unless the Legislature at once appro- 
priate several thousand dollars for the work of extermination, the San 
Jose scale will always be with us, for in many places it is now beyond 
private control. 

The exact localities of the infected orchards are aq follows: 

Marshfield, Webster county, Missouri, one family orchard. 

Norborne, Carroll county, Missouri, one orchard 2* miles south. 

Jefferson City, Cole county, Missouri, two orchards 2 miles west 
and one orchard 4 miles west. 

Cape Girardeau, Cape Girardeau county, Missouri, one orchard 1 
mile west. 



WINTER MEETING. 315 

Normandy, St. Louis county, Missouri, several orchards and small 
fruit farms. 

Des Peres, St. Louis county, Missouri, two orchards. 

AflftOD, St. Louis county, Missouri, two orchards. 

Moberly, Randolph county, Missouri, fl^e private orchards in city 
and two east of city limits. 

Blue Springs, Jackson county, Missouri, two orchards, one with n 
city limits and one just without. 

Independence, Jackson county, Missouri, one orchard 1 mile east, 
one orchard 3 miles south, and one orchard 2^ miles south. 

Missouri horticulture will suffer many million dollars loss in the 
near future unless every effort, both private and legislative, be at once 
made to exterminate this scale in the areas now infested, and to pre- 
vent its introduction into new localities. Each year that this matter 
is neglected greatly increases the difficulty and expense necessary to 
eradicate it, enlarges the infested area and renders some new locality 
beyond control. No one can form an idea of the importance of this 
pest until they have seen an infested orchard — the damage done, the 
trouble and difficulty to kill the insect, and the impossibility experi- 
enced by the ordinary observer to detect its presence unless it occur 
in vast numbers, which indicates that it has probably already spread 
over a considerable area. 

Missouri ranks third among the states in its horticultural interests. 
Many states whose fruit is a small item compared with Missouri's, 
have already made appropriations for the investigation and extermina- 
tion of the San Jose scale, and have enacted laws to prevent the in- 
troduction and spread of the pest. Missouri should have been one of 
the first to provide for its fruit interest in this respect, and it is to be 
hoped that every fruit-grower and every intelligent person in the State, 
will demand that our next Legislature provide for this important work. 
Ample funds should be provided with which to carry on the investi- 
gation and work of extermination ; and laws should be enacted to 
compel owners of infested plants to make immediate efforts to eradi- 
cate the pest, or submit to having it done ; and also laws enacted to 
regulate the sale and distribution of infested nursery stock within the 
State. As it now stands, any infested nursery can ship its stock into 
Missouri. 

The full description of this insect and its remedies, with illustra- 
tions, can be found in the State Horticultural report for 1896. 



316 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



REMEDIES. 

It 18 impossible to discuss in this bulletin the merits of the differ- 
ent washes and remedies used against this insect. It will suffice to 
give the following, which has been found to be the simplest and most 
effectual : 

Cut down and burn all badly infested trees, since they are already 
so far gone and injured that it will not pay to try and save them. 
Prune the other trees back severly and burn the cuttings. Then ap- 
ply thoroughly, by means of a force pump and spray nozzle, or by a 
whitewash brush, or both, as the case may require, whale-oil soap, dis- 
solved in water in the proportion of two pounds of soap to one gallon 
of water. Give the trees a good drenching on all sides so as to com- 
pletely cover every portion of the tree above ground, and repeat the 
process if it rains within a week after the spraying. Three applica- 
tions should be made, and two are absolutely essential. 

The best time to apply the soap is in the fall, just after the leaves 
have fallen, and before the scales have become hardened, and again in 
the spring, just before the buds swell, and if possible, once during 
the winier also. If but two applications can be made, the fall and 
spring applications are the essential ones. 

Do not use whale-oil soap for San Jose scale while the trees are 
active or leaved out, since it is apt to kill them. 

The use of washes during the summer is of practically no economic 
value, since the young lice are hatching continuously. This would 
necessitate sprayings every third day for two months. The expense of 
such a treatment would be too great. The young San Jose scale, not 
over two days old, is easily killed by ordinary washes, and if it were 
not for the continual appearance of the same, the insect would not be 
especially troublesome. 

Old trees and all others that have rough, scaly bark should be cut 
down and burned if infested with the scale, since it is impossible to 
reach and kill the scales that are protected under such rough bark. 

Be sure and use whale-oil soap and not ordinary soap. If whale- 
oil soap cannot be had, fish oil soap can be used, but not with as good 
results. Whale-oil soap can be purchased from any large drug firm. It 
costs about four cents per pound. 

The only objection to the application of this wash is that the trees 
are liable to either not bloom at all or to bloom very little the first sea- 
son, but they will make up in an increased development of foliage and 
vigorous growth of the tree. 



WINTER MEETING. 317 

From our experiments in Missouri it is evident that whale-oil soap 
used as directed will completely exterminate the San Jose scale on the 
trees thus treated. 

Nurserj- stock that is infested with the San Jose scale should be 
burned ; while stock that might possibly be slightly infested by being 
grown near (one mile or less) regions that are infested, should be fumi- 
gated as a precaution, even though no scales are detected on such 
stock. The nature of the scale renders it impossible to make a com- 
plete inspection and detection of the pest in nursery stock, and hence 
the necessity of a thorough fumigation. The fumigation should con- 
sist of hydrocyanic acid gas generated in a tightly closed box or room 
in which the stock is placed. 

The following is a reliable plan : Select or have made a tight room 
or large box and place the nursery stock in it, filling it up if necessary^ 
and then generate the hydrocyanic acid gas by placing it in an earthen 
bowl, two parts sulphuric acid mixed with six parts water, put this in 
the box or room, and when all is ready, drop one part cyanide of pot- 
assium in the bowl of weak acid and close the door immediately. Of 
course the door should fit tightly so that no gas ( to amount to any- 
thing ) can escape. Every precaution should be taken not to breath 
the gas, since it is extremely poisonous. Leave the plants under the 
influence of the gas for one-half to three-quarters of an hour. 

The proper amount of the ingredients required, depends on the 
size of the room or box, but it is safe to say that one ounce of the 
cyanide of potassium should be used for every 150 cubic feet of the 
room space. For instance, a room ten feet by ten feet by six feet 
would contain 600 cubic feet, and after the nursery stock is in, the 
bowl should be supplied with eight ounces of sulphuric acid and 
twenty-four ounces of water stirred together, and when all is ready, 
fourounces of cyanide of potassium should be added. 

Open and air the room before entering to remove the plants. 
We are indebted to the following railroads for material assistance 
in carrying on the work of inspecting orchards : Kansas City, Fort 
Scott & Memphis R. R. Co., St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co., 
Hannibal & St. Joseph R. R. Co., St. Louis Keokuk & Northwest- 
ern R. R. Co., Kansas City, St. Joseph & Council Bluffs R. R. Co. 
and the Chicago, Burlington & Kansas City R. R. Co. 

J. M. Stedman, Entomologist, Columbia, Mo. 



318 ' STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



THIRD LIST OF HORTICULTURAL QUESTIONS. 

1. What fruits can the fruit-grower in Missouri have on the market 
in May ? 

Strawberries, early raspberries and some cherries, both sweet 
and sour. 

2. What out door vegetables can be placed on the market in April 
and May ? 

Radishes, lettuce, spinach and onions. 

3. What effect does fruit as a principal food have on the disposi- 
tion of men ? 

Ripe, fresh fruit, by stimulating the appetite, aiding digestion, and 
promoting the general health, tends to render the disposition mild and 
peaceable. Fruits and farinas are our natural and most healthful food. 

4. What is pomology ? 

Pomology means " the art or science of fruit-raising. " 

5. How does it differ from horticulture I 

It differs from horticulture in the fact that it has nothing to do 
with methods of culture. Horticulture includes pomology. 

6. What are evergreen-trees, and how can they be utilized '? 
Evergreen-trees are those which retain their leaves at all seasons 

of the year. They may be utilized as hedges, screens and windbreaks, 
also in ornamental planting. 

7. What are the objections to too many shade trees near a 
dwelling ? 

They cause ground and walls to retain too much moisture and 
keep out the light. 

8. What is an insectivorous plant? Mention some. 

Such plants as derive nutriment from insects which are caught by 
the sticky, glandular hairs of the plant ; or such as the fly-bane or 
"catch-fly," or the sensitive plant known as the Venus' fly-trap. 

9. How and where should a limb be cut from a tree ? 

Just outside the protuberance seen on the juncture of the limb 
and body of tree, nature's own gage or mark, as where a limb should 
be cut off with a sharp knife. 

10. What is meant by a tree bleeding ? 
The running of the sap after trimming. 

The flow of sap in trees corresponds somewhat with the circula- 
tion of blood in the human body, and a cut or wound made by severe 



WINTER MEETING. 319 

pruning or topping a tree or grapevine during the flow of sap in early 
spring may cause it to bleed to death. 

11. Pro.ve that sap is not conducted to the branches through the 
hard or heart wood. 

By coloring the \Yater with which a plant was watered, it has been 
traced within the stem and found to ascend almost wholly in the cam- 
bium layer (alburnum) or young growing wood between the bark and 
heart wood. The same may be proved by sawing and placing a stick 
of hickory or maple in the sunshine, or on a fire in early spring and 
witnessing the flow of sap from this layer. 

12. Can small plants and trees be sent by mail ? 
Yes, safely, to the amount of four pounds. 

13. What, duty do the local Horticultural Societies owe to the 
pubKc schools and grounds ? 

They should aid in seleciing and procuring suitable trees and 
shrubs for school grounds. 

14. What is Arbor day ? 

The Friday following the annual school meeting is a day set apart 
for cleaning up and arranging grounds in every school district, when 
parents and guardians are expected to assist in planting suitable shade 
and ornamental trees and encourage the work by appropriate talks ? 

15. What are deciduous trees ? 

A deciduous tree is one that drops its leaves in autumn ? 

16. What are perennials ? 

Perennial plants live and blossom year after year. 

17. What are annuals *? 

Annuals live only for a year or part of a year. 

18. What is meant by nomenclature in horticulture ? 

By nomenclature in horticulture is meant the correct naming of 
varieties of cultivated garden plants, including vegetables and fruits. 

19. What is sun-scald ? 

Sun-scald is the burning of tender leaves or the bark of trees by 
the hot sun. 

20. How prevented ? 

It is prevented by keeping the parts shaded by proper pruning or 
wrapping. 

21. What kind of a branch is called a sucker "? 
One that starts from the underground stem. 

22. What three ways of propagating currants ? 
(1) Grafting ; (2) layering ; (3) from cuttings. 



320 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

23. What is " bagging" fruit ? 

" Bagging " the grape — the only fruit bagged that I know of — is a 
method of inclosing the fruit cluster within a paper bag, soon after 
blooming, as a preventive of rot. One-pound manila paper bags are 
recommended. " Bagging the grape " not only prevents rot but makes 
the fruit more beautiful. Eecommended only where but few vines are 
grown. 

24. What is a trellis ? 

A trellis is a structure of cross-barred or lattice-work, or of posts 
driven into the ground with wires attached and extended from post to 
post, and used as a support or protection for grape and other vines. 

25. Why prune trees ? 

Trees are pruned (a) to direct the growth and to preserve a sym- 
metrical form ; (b) to prevent overcrowding of branches, so as to ad- 
mit the sunlight and to facilitate spraying and picking of the fruit ; (c) 
to remove dead or decaying branches ; (d) in some cases to thin the 
fruit; (e) in some cases to induce fraitfuiness. 

26. When prune trees? ^ 

Late in winter or early spring is the best time, except when 
it is desired to check the growth, so as to favor the formation of fruit 
buds. In that case summer pruning is resorted to. 

27. How prune trees ? 

(a) With a jack-knife cut away such small branches on young 
trees as are likely to crowd when they grow larger, and in many cases 
rubbing off young sprouts answers the same purpose ; (h) with a saw 
which will make a smooth cut, one in the form of a meat saw, with a 
stiff back, is better than the common pruning saw with two edges ; (c) 
pruning shears are often useful. In all cases where a limb is to be re- 
moved entire, the cut should be made just at the collar, so that the 
wound will heal quickly. When limbs are to be shortened, it is advis- 
able to make the cut near a branch, as if a stub is left the wound will 
not heal. 

28. What two methods of growing strawberries? 

(a) The hill method, by which the runners are cut from the plants 
and no new plants allowed to take root; (b) the matted row system, 
by which the runners are allowed, with more or less restriction, to 
grow and take root. 

29. What is cold storage ? 

Oold storage is the process by which perishable articles are kept 
at a low temperature, a little above freezing, in most cases, in order to 
prevent decay. 



WINTER MEETING. 321 

30. Why does cold storage preserve fruit ? 

Cold storage preserves fruit because the chemical processes which 
take place in the ripening of fruit go on very slowly in a low tempera- 
ture, and because the fungi which induce decay do not thrive under 
such conditions. 

31. What is meant by small fruits ? 

By small fruits we mean esculent berries of every kind, such as 
strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, gooseberries, currants, and 
some include grapes. 

32. What is meant by stone fruits ? 

Stone fruits are such as have a kernel inclosed in a hard covering 
or shell enveloped in the pulp, such as peaches, plums and cherries. 

33. How distinguish crab apples from other apples ? 
Primarily, a crab means a wild apple, so called from its rough 

taste. Improved by cultivation, trees are less scrubby, fruit larger in 
size, though smaller and more acid than other apples, generally. 

34. What uses are made of crab apples ? 

Chiefly used for cider, vinegar, preserves, jelly and for ornament, 
although some improved sorts are very good to eat. 

35. How can a tree cut down in winter leaf out without the aid 
of its roots ? 

By using the starch which was stored up around the buds while 
the leaves were on last summer. The heat stimulates growth, and this 
starch supply is used. 

36. How can a twig cut from a plum tree in winter and put in 
water in a warm room flower ? 

Same as above ; the starch around the buds feeds the new growth. 

37. How can a twig be torced into growth in the winter by draw- 
ing it in a warm room while its roots are frozen outside ? 

Same as above. 

38. Why will some trees leaf out again if their leaves are killed in 
early spring while they will not if their leaves are killed in mid-summer ? 

In early spring the starch which was stored up for winter is not 
yet exhausted, and can nourish a second crop of leaves. In midsum- 
mer this starch is all gone, and if the leaves (which digest food to 
nourish growth) are killed, there is no starch left to promote growth. 

39. Why are potatoes propagated from tubers while tomatoes are 
propogated from seed ? 

Potatoes come true from tubers, but every seed will produce a 
different variety, most of them being poorer than the parent. Toma- 
toes come true from seed. 
H— 21 



322 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

40. Why will the seed of a Ponderosa tomato produce a Pon- 
derosa tomato, while the seed of a potato will not produce potatoes 
like Us parent ? 

The reason is, potatoes have not had their seeds selected to fix 
the type; tomatoes have. 

41. Do pine trees have tiowers? If so, when do they flower? 
Yes ; they flower in May. 

42. Do oak trees bear seeds ? Do they bear flowers ? 

They do, and also flowers. The acorns are the seeds; the flowers 
appear just as the leaves are starting. 

43. Do willows have seeds ? 
Yes. 

44. How do willow trees propagate themselves so rapidly on sand 
bars ? 

By their twigs, which are brittle, breaking off by winds or when 
loaded with snow and ice, and floating down to sand bars, where they 
root as cuttings. They also propagate by seeds. 

45. Does the white elm have seeds 1 If so, when do they ripen ? 
Yes. They ripen in April, before leaves appear. 

46. When do ash seeds ripen ? 
In autumn. 

47. How are Kentucky coffee beans and locust seed treated to 
make them germinate 1 

By pouring boiling water over them and allowing them to soak 
until they swell. 

48. Why are the roots of forced pie plant and asparagus unfit 
for further use ? 

Their strength is spent in forcing. 
• 49. Where are the famous fields of celery ? 
In Michigan and Wisconsin. 

50. What are citrus fruit, and mention some ? 
Lemon, citron, orange, bergamott, lime, etc. 

51. Where and how are cranberries raised? 

They are raised in swampy land in Michigan, in Canada, and sev- 
eral northern states. 

52. What is a bud ? 

That from which a stem with its leaves is continued or a new stem 
originated is a bud — Grays Botany. 

53. What is the difference between the fruit and the seed ? 

The fruit is the seed vessel. Practically it may include such parts 
as the calyx, receptacle, etc. — Gray. 



WINTER MEETING. 323 

The seed is the final product of the flower, and has the rudimen- 
tary plant in it. 

54. What is meant by berry ? 

A berry is a fruit in which the flesh is soft throughout, with the 
. seeds imbedded, such as gooseberry, strawberry, blackberry, tomato 
and orange. 

55. What is chlorophyll ? 

The green grains within the cells of plants. 

.56. What is protoplasm ? 

Protoplasm is a peculiar semi-transparent substance invaribly 
present where life, plant or animal exists. 

57. What is a layer ? 

A layer is a brancii of a raspberry, etc., which is bent down and 
covered with soil for the purpose of growing a root, after which the 
connecting branch is cut, and so a new plant is originated. 

59. What is a sport ? 

A bud or shoot which suddenly assumes characters different from 
the rest of the plant. 

60. What is cambium and its office ? 

The formative fluid found in the layer between the bark and wood 
of an exogenous stem. 

61. What is the difference between pumpkin and squash? 

They are different species of the same genus cucurbita of the fam- 
ily cucurbitaceaB. 

62. What is vegetable respiration °? 

Vegetable respiration is taking of air, gases and nutriment through 
the leaves. 

63. What is vegetable assimilation ? 

Assimilation is the conversion of the transferred nutriment into 
the substance of the plant itself. 

64. In speaking of cells in plants, what do we mean ? 

A typical cell is an oval boiy having a thin membranous wall sur- 
rounding the protoplasm and nucleus. All living organisms are com- 
posed of one or more such structures — McMurrick. 

65. What is reproduction in plants ? 

Reproduction of plants means the natural multiplication by seeds 
and other means. 

66. What are exogenous stems ? 

Exogenous means outside growing. That is, the new wood is 
added on the outside of the old, though within the bark. 



324 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

67. What are endogenous stems ? 

Endogenous, or inside growing, the woody threads are evenly dis- 
tributed throughout the stems, not in layers. 

68. What countries teach horticulture in their public schools ? 
Some places in America, Prussia, Belgium, Germany and Eussia. 



The following resolution was passed by the Missouri State Teach- 
ers' Association, and may lead to some definite plan for future work : 

That this Association wouM look with favor upon the enactment of a law requiring 
that the elements of science, of ^agriculture and horticulture he Included among the sub- 
jects to be taught In the public schools of Missouri; also, the President of the Association 
shall appoint a commltteejof three to investigate and report at our next annual meeting 
what Is being done by the Missouri State Horticultural Society In the matter of horticul- 
tural education, that we may co-operate with It If favorably Impressed. 

G. B. Lamm, 
Chairman Com. on Hort. Education, Sedalia, Mo. 



WINTER MEETING. 325 



COMPARA.TIVE PHENOLOGIOAL NOTES. 

The taking of phenological notes upon the various phases of plant 
development has received comparatively little attention, especially in 
this country. Among the earliest records are those by Stillingtieet in 
England, who, during the latter part of the last century and the begin- 
ning of the present, noted the appearance of tlowers on quite a large 
number of plants, covering a period of thirty-two successive years. 
The Royal Meteorological ^society of Great Brittain has carried on 
similar work for many years at various stations. The only published 
records in this country appear to be those by Britton* on the fall and 
appearance of leaves at New Dorp, Staten Island for the autumn of 
1877 and spring of 1878 ; Henryf, on the appearance of leaves for the 
spring of 1881, at Madison, Wis.; TreleaseJ on the appearance and fall 
of leaves for 1883, 1884 and 1885, at the same place; Hoisted || on the 
appearance of flowers for the spring of 1886, at Ames, la.; Baily^ on 
the leafing seasons for 1885, 1886 and 1887, at Lansing, Mich.; Pammel§ 
on the appearance of flowers for 1891, at Ames, making comparisons 
with Holsted's notes at the same place for 1886; Pammel** in the same 
manner for 1892, making comparisons with notes from Madison, Lan- 
sing, New York and Vienna, Austria; Whittenff on the beginning and 
ending of the leafing, flowering and fruiting season for 1892 and 1893, 
at the Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis. 

While these records are not sufficiently complete for the greatest 
good, they are useful in many ways. Concerning the value of a know- 
ledge of the time when leaves fall. Prof. Trelease, in the report above 
referred to, says : "It is of value for a correct understanding of their 
vital processes." Prof. Bailey says, "it is invaluable in determing the 
varying periods of growth in different latitudes and under varying 
conditions." Furthermore the horticulturist is interested, insofar as 
it bears upon plants of horticultural value, a knowledge of the flower- 
ing season is essential in planting to secure succession of bloom from 
very early spring to late autumn. Again he must know the leafing 

*Bun. Terry. Bot. Club, 6:211,235; 1878. 

tUep. University of Wisconsin, 35; 1880. 

JRep. Wisconsin Agr. Exp. Sta., l:56;1883— 2:56;1885. 

§Bun. Iowa Agr. Col., Dept. of Botany, 42, 1886. 

ilBull. Michigan Agr. Col., 31:67;1887. 

TBuU. TorreyBot. Club, 19:375;1892. 

*Proc. Iowa Acad, of Sciences, 46, 1892. 

tRept. Missouri Bot. Garden, 5:123;1894. 



326 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

season so as to select and properly arrange those whose buds are first 
to open in reference to those which hold their foliage longest. 

While these notes are useful for the reasons first given, there is 
another even more interesting, and which may become useful — namely, 
the relation they bear to existing meteorological conditions. All plants 
are influenced in one way or another and to a greater or less extent by 
the immediate past and current meteorological conditions. Waldo, in 
his work on modern meteorology, refers to the works of a number of 
European meteorologists and others, some of whom have endeavored 
to deduce a formula that will indicate the influence which temperature 
bears upon the phenomena of plant development. It cannot be said 
that their attempts were by any means a success, largely because of 
incomplete data, together with the fact that other conditions than tem- 
perature play an essential part. Though temperature is evidently the 
most important factor, frequency and amount of rainfall, velocity of 
wind, amount of sunshine, together with the character and meteor- 
ology of the soil must be considered. Moreover the phenology of the 
plants must include separate notes on each one of several individuals 
of a species in various exposures in the same as well as different lati- 
tudes and extending over a series of years upon the same individuals. 
As no such records exist, it is impossible to arrive at any very definite 
conclusions. 

It would seem that our Experiment Stations might do valuable 
work along this line by deciding upon a list of representative species 
on which observations be made by responsible persons, who could be 
trusted to take accurate and complete notes. With these brought to- 
gether from all parts of the country and properly tabulated a pheno- 
logical chart might be made which would indicate the approximate 
time of the various phases of plant development for the different lo- 
calities, and this would be of incalculable assistance, especially to 
working botanists ; also, if accurate meteorological observations be 
made at the same places its influence might be determined, at least 
their relationship could be indicated. It would also be well to calcu- 
late the relative absorbing and evaporating power of the different spe- 
cies under consideration by laboratory experiments. 

In the absence of more complete data, the following tables, giving 
dates of the appearance of flowers, are compiled from records taken 
at the Missouri Botanical Garden from 1892 to 1897 ; Manhattan, 
Kan., from 1894 to 1897, and Ames, la., during 1886, 1891, 1892 and 1896. 

As above mentioned, some of these notes have previously been 
published, and for those which have not I am indebted to Prof. G. W, 
Carver for those from Ames for 1896, and to Mr. J. B. S. Norton for 



WINTEE MEETING. 327 

all from Manhattau. Those from the Missouri Botanical Garden for 
1894 were taken by Prof. J. 0. Whitten and Mr.|E. Mische, at that time 
a garden pupil; the others by the writer, with the assistance of many 
of the garden pupils. , 

To illustrate the annual variations in the time of flowering, the 
appended diagrams (plates 1-3) were designed. The vertical lines 
represent the years, and the horizontal dotted lines every second day 
beginning with the earliest date of flowering. A few plants from the 
Missouri botanical garden list wpre selected for plate 1, and from Man- 
hattan and Ames for the two following plates respectively. Knowing 
the date that each plant blossomed during the different years of the 
period, curved lines are drawn through points where the lines repre- 
senting these dates intersect, and the name of the plant placed at the 
end of the line. The direction of the line not only gives the actual 
time for each year, but shows the yearly as well as extreme variation 
that each plant reaches during the entire period. It will be observed 
that the variation is much greater with some plants than with others, 
showing that some respond more quickly to certain climatic conditions. 
Again, one plant may blossom earlier than another one season and later 
the following season. Take for example, Forsythie niridissima and 
Dirca palustris. In 1895 the former appeared thirteen days later than 
the latter, whereas in 1896 the former was seven days earlier than the 
other. For these apparent inconsistencies it is very difficult to find a 
reason. However, it seems to show that numerous elements must more 
or less influence growth, and to find a reason each must be analyzed. 

Temperature tables for St. Louis and Manhattan, including mean 
temperature for each day from February 1 to May 31 with the sums and 
means for every 10 days as well as for each month, are given, together 
with diagrams (plate 4) showing variations in the same manner as the 
plant variations are indicated. 

The solid curved lines in this diagram represents the average tem- 
perature from the first to the tenth, the eleventh to the twentieth and 
the twenty-first to the last day of each month, and the dotted lines 
represent the average temperature for each month. These months are 
selected on the supposition that they exert more direct influence than 
any other time. It will be observed that in a general way the lower 
the average temperature during these months the following season is 
correspondingly late. Beyond this it is impossible to go with present 
data. Other things being constant it would seem that each plant re- 
quired a certain amount of heat to bring it to a certain stage, and by 
computing the sums of the daily averages from a certain date, the 
time of flowering, etc., could be determined from weather records. 



328 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

This is not improbable when we know the influence which other ele- 
ments exert. As it is impossible to say just when a plant begins to be 
influenced by the temperature, it would be necessary to reckon from 
the observed time of one of the earliest to appear. 

A table is also included, comparing various plants at the different 
places indicated, together with the average monthly temperatures. 
The temperature at Ames for the entire period was not procurable, 
those given being based on the readings at Des Moines and Iowa City. 

H. C. Irish, 
Mo. Bot, Garden, St. Louis, Mo. 



WINTER MEETING. 



329 






35 r3 

1- r; tH 



■>1 2 M rt 

'5 el's i 



a ^ 



1- 2 '» ""^ "^ °o =» '-' --^ 

>> >> g 'n n >> >,T, >."n 

(Sg-aacatoarta 



^?3 



« o -1 15 tc 

3 M as a 
<^ a -1 ;s, o 






^ rt •-< ^«5 «;3 

pg-jaart^aasia 



3 0=: 

5i- 



a c Si' ^ i:? 

r- g cs aa 






aa 
<J<1 






ga 



1^ 
a 



as] 

<;a 



a '-' 



S s*"!: >.>>S >'>>'n >,'i^'C >>u 
^a<:sai-5aa<!a<i^aa 






>►,(.> 



^ ttoj •< a '-5 •< -5 



o ^ « 

CV ■ CCi-H C^ CS 05 ^ 

?0 ^H rH 

ac3_2 * ^3 ^3 ^ 

<!!2aa'<'-5'«!i>-5''i 



a 

03 



o 

g 

03 






o o u -S 

S- in tH J, >,>» 

fl 03 ^ a C3 cs 



S- t< t( 

c3 aoS 

a-<a 



i3 
o 

a 



<ia.* 



ao3 03 

<iaa 






—■V 



a a3 03 

a<Ta 



" ffl 
■ a 



tn Q,3 

a> 3 
t, o t< 

<- OJ 0) 

O) o*j 

* ^^a 

03 a-- 

— o a; c 



C3 

a 

■ 3 

P 

, .eS 3 

;=a- 



aa 
<;<5 



to u) a 

3 3-1-1 

3 p 0; 
O O — 
«) ul O 

3ff:a)' 
^ o 

0; -1-1 ^ 

0) a ™ 
3 2S 



: b 

tn 



!5 wfl 



03 

^->0) 

03 3 
;,yg3 



. 00 

3 o 

i- !>.!-■ 

aa3 03 

<sa 



cQ oj a 

aa<5 



a 



o o - ■ 

« O 3 «S 

t, tn^ 

<" O -^ 

2 =^ fl 03 

3 M? o 
C m *^ 

0*-i*^ 3 

O 



035 -5 



1 o S "> 



0) D 

i-J ** 

C 

0) 



v9 « 



03 a~ 

3 01 ^ „< i;,--c 3 a 
£-c552'g=^-3r, 

aoo^spg-a 
pc;3gc>ca 

o 2 ^ a 2 o ;: » a 

c^gatn^rrs ~ 

?^i2i2m£"3s 



303 .^S 

a)sh 

^ t!; 3 o 

(,, 0) 0,5 

a>2 ^ a 



0)1: t;5 = s^ g ji'^oi 

S03;;;rtti,^O-;ocSIS 



^ ® r -_ 
aj-- o 

,„ m" to 

.">,0 3 
3 o; 0.0 
03 3 & ^ ■ 

gs © a 

o-cS a 
t; "> 03 '-I 
3 3 « 3 



■ a 



a oi 

to 03 

>g 

03-^ 



t3 
-1-1 
a) 

>>a -3 

ro-n to o 

- W f-* — * 

a 
a 



I M 3 



o 03 o :^ 

fe !- C3 ® 

!i< a 



c^ o ^ 
O 0)0 

•H a iH 
03503 

a^a 



3S 



b ;-< 

03 03 

aa 



03 0! 



O O 

03 03 



I- ^ 
ass 

<!2 



(S3 3 



torn 
a 03 

aa 



a oj 



ros 



00 






03 J2 

03 o 

3 9 
• 0) 

o o 

•a ts 
3 ^ 



, (UiJ "> 01 

1^ to to &r 

3 - C33e 

<u S 0) o 3 

t. ®^ to u, 

a o r — >.■ 



03 

o 

3 

S33 

S a— 

to to ^ 



5g 

C3 
C — 

So . s,ii to 
-atr.-naw 



^ o ■•-' 
3 ^H 3 ( 

^ o 3 I 
Op' 



'-^™ O m o tn 
03;-: a'O to o 

2arB-5,aG 
to a 3^ a ^ 

3 to t» -^-STI 

■a3>.i?^o 

0.36152^, 

o a ^ C- "^ 

:ifc-a2E<^=^,°So-MS 

!H0)aa5f::--£ja:ito>> 

^C H 03^—., 

0^35' 0) a 

*^ a o bt" a 
as a 01 « „ 
3 tJipis M to 
3 3 * to o o 

Hoaossa 



5 '333"- 

&?-la^' 

i; > lo OS C f" . 
C>S'^O0)a:iii; 

S a 3 B'P'^a 



, . _ 1 9 o 
, o 3 o c a 

■ O ^ K O ;/; 



a 
o 

^0) 

« ac3 

•-.a" 
350 

r; U in 
> O 

3ato 

SDO) to 
fci CJ (I) 

a;— o 
' 'Csi 



Mr 






o 

ctf.a 

to +-1 

o a 
9^ 

3 to 

3 t. 



330 



STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



S3 

o 



CO 



O 

a 
"3 

o 

O 
O 

a 
a 



o 
c3 



P.O. 



(D IBS 0) 

^c a ^ d 



O.P. 



® . ■ ■ — — c OJ 

r1 r»^ ^ J-t Sh Q Q 
3 CB B3 aO.5 3 



C^ i^ CM 

(Sg as 



o 

,_^ c^ , 

0,03 C 

<2-1 



0,0,(8 



A Oi C3 Cj 



00 .r- 

a . a a 

s .as 



: Q. 



CO CM 
CM 

a c 
S<5 



03 O. 



— ^ — •d_ 

S ,^ — OS 
O, A CilS O. 



ao. 



'^r-CM.H^ •rt.-H'-i 

DCd C3 03 ^ 
tai. .~< WH "^ 



03 ffl H 



ac 



C.C. 



S3 
in 

(^ 



a 

S3 

-M 

S3 

C 
ea 



CO 

<D 
■*-» 

o 
c 

W) 

o 
o 
a 

ID 

X! 



a 

63 






OS 



CM_^ 

» a 
fe<3 



0) o. 






ascM -CM 
cj O. ' O. 



or- 



:ao 
C3 o, O.C3 a 



03 cd o« 



2^ 

•.^ en 

a 3 OJ 

P. IB c 



0,0, c: 0,03 o.ti 



CM _, CM .-( -^ rfl CM r-1 

ss osss s s 
ao.cs ao.ao3 oca a 



Ci O CM ro CM CM 

CM ^ ^ CM I- CM 

aca aaci3 c3 aacs a 



O ITS CC 

CMCO-H_^ 

63 C13 C3 a 



»0 ^^ 1-.^^ --H 

cs acs acj 



o 00 -^. OS X 
^^ r^ CM CM »-. ^ 

— . r-( — ^- — --* ^ 

■CSfcl 'Sin >%>> 
aaococa cs 



CM .-H • w ^ 

__ oc ^'-— ' 
SS O O 

a cS A c3 cj 



a a 



10 c*a ^ c^ -^ Tc ra i^a i-H ^ - nt _, .-h t^2 
SSSS = S'^SSS'^Sot3=^S=^ 
aaoooo-osaaocsacDtBcsaai 



o ■ og 

CO CM CM CM 



ao3a<3aaac8aaa 



C*a_„i-H CM^^CM CC»HCMrHO CCCM 

s^s^s=ooss'^s''s^^''^'"ss 
acQacsaa^^o.ac3aci3ac3cso3c3aa 



< S < S <! - 



;2<<s<s«^sss3<<; 



CO c3 
SO 



oji 
>>- t^ 

CO 2 "^ 

fr-. r,-i — ( 
-^fr- O 

o ®i3 

<D o<; 

0.5"' 

a a I" 

"^ ;- 3 

® *-• r-* 



sJ' 

Oq 

a 

-.03 

c >. 

CO--. 

O cs 
O to 

r:c 

cS 

^ c 
ao 

if 

<< 

C ■" 

SS 
c c 

sc 

U5 g 



a cs 

S to 

MO 

05 

03 3 

a 

to 

SS'' 

'Ca- 
cs a; 



to;: 



a 

toe 

ca f- 



S3 S£ 

a 03 



C--I 

; to , 



^03 
to o 

'5'S 

2=3 

as?'- 
(D 03 s;3 

03 " 7 cs 

^ fci a; ° 

O^ w 

"csSS 

o aj 035 

-^ too w 

'^ii-tcs 
2* "=" 

C3 © o; ■ — ' 
CC u^ tfi 



a 

+-. 

11 

O) o 
toe; 

" a o 
■^ 2 to 

CO) 'II 

<Ba$ 

'O ^^ 4-J 

7- a 03 a 

I mo 



3 
3 

. a 

cS 3 

i: c. 

03 p 

■a-5'to 

3 cS O 

o=t5 



; 03 



ao3 



CO 

a 
o 

03 _ 



_ i; >-,o 

3 •.-> C 03 ,-^ — '••3 

giiacs«'ao 

=^Bo5^3S 

to o " 2 a H 
m -. to a r; c3 

_r- C3 — 5 I' O 



i2Sa-§^a^^»£ 



Sh !^ S-i £-1 

auac 






oo"^SS 



aaaaaa!n!o3o3o3Qa 



CO .-*. t^ 
'^- '^ S S S ■■" "* O 

O3o3aaao3o3o3 



3 •« a o 

+J CD CS i- 

°^i:s o 

s"5 " 

<US il'co 

a °i: 3 
5 "< "^ 5>i 



■— ,^ to: 



1^ to 



as is CO- q 



ai O 
O an P 
CO o3 ' 



cs; 



® 

> 3 



^^ .^ -^ OJ iJ. - 
•^ V r* ^ **. ^ 



CS J> 

u > 

as 






P52 



s-<;<^fc<ccpHcoBo>cc' 



■a 5 t. ,„ ^ -^ 

a>"^a ^-"5! "^ 
^ CO V, y) a ^Z 
^•^ a '^ a ^-^ 

a a a ^ > t« ^ 



a 3:::^ 
u 

o 



o 

03 

u 

OJ 
OJ — 

^33 

PS"- 
o 55 

eS CO c 



'03 



^^•">3 



ag«^ 
•3 a> a 



CM to CO 

a aa 



a- ; 
a>^c- 



to - 



03^ OJ Sj 



coa — 

^ o a 






O M 



cs3ac«6o 

h^ C *'"' K s s -^^ 



a ® 5 'J a 
s a > t" w 

t3o.|ot„ 

a « ca 5: 

0- <, O O r. 



o 

O C to 
3 03 3 



-==i°o^ 



25Sc3 



cs 



09 



02a 

-^ * 3 
3 3o 



11/ ^ j_> CI 

r. 91ii-- 

a?"« 
cs o "^S 



^^03 

©"to 9 

CO a =1 
a a>i^ 

^£a5 

(- a > 
aa<3 

a 3 to=" 
a— 3 to 

— ^ a a 03 
r',T"~' a -^ 
>- £" hJ S a 






Soa*'^ 
> TT 03 >-. a 

C ^ O t< fl 



cS 

a 

03 
o 

a> 

a 
<) 

a 
o 

M 
o 

a ♦-» 

5n 
a.3 

a CO 

a 03 
a>> 



^S?^^*^ 



I'D -H Q Otj 

I cur a— « 






WINTER MEETING. 



331 


















■ u 

: o. 






• 00 
■ (B 

: a 



. c^ ' 



. lO 






■ ao, : o 



3 
o 

h-1 



CO 

a 

-c 

01 

O 
»— I 
cS 

a 

OS 

+j 

o 

a 

"u 
3 
O 
tn 

ID 






• £8 0.3 



. 10 

■ (B 



: <B 
• c 

: 3 






S OS 

fci !- M 

acs ft 





02—1 


; • 


■ 1-1 CO 


roo • 


: 


CM i-< rH 


(».>>>. 


. ;-• M 


C3 03 (S 


• a c3 


ass 


:as 



■ a 
■< 



■S3 

: o 

. !l 

• c3 



si 
O.'si 



: >>>. 

■ CB 03 



• ■ « 

:s o 

• Oo3 



• ^^ ■ ■ ^ 



• ^ 

: o 

•<1 






fc, fcl u 

ftSS tiS 

^H *^ ^ 



■CD 



. ^^ . t^ 



: 33 



• ft 

'■< 






: o 

■ 03 



: 0) o 

■ « is 



3 

as 



g 



to 

a 

® 

a a 



alls 

4; ■- '-< ti 

03 03 5 ® 
.-. O^— ' 
bBi»,o.3 
[/) m o O 
■3 oJ 03 3 

•^ =- •- © 



■ ^ ! m . 
a) :-. : . 

• i: • o oi 

ci^'^os^S^ 

tn ii w 03 a u 

% ft— " 5»»3 

S OS 0! c3^ ?! 



• 0) 
■ Ul 

: a 

• <D 
dJ'C 
*-> 03 
C8C 
C 03 

*-) 03 -; S 
«b,cj3 



J, w i-, 



sag 






ft ^ c— < ■*-> 

o »- s i> S 



a 3 tn o3 03 •« 



33 cat- 
3 tnS $. 
S.3 C =^ 

o SB Sf a 

3 S'a ® 



»SsSc3 ■ 

^ ® 33 : 
^'t: 03 03 • 

Jn 3 ^^ — tn 
oOSWjd 

3 i« "o 



• to 

■ a> 



3^:3:^ 

3 3 s 3 2 
bXJ & 3 3 3 

0) c '-, -« — 



'■ 03 

aas 

3 S O 

S fc; M 

3 '»H 3 
to to^ 

551 



03 2 • 

a2 : 

(S 3 • 
iriO. ■ 

tH O <S 

tn 3 « 
3^ m 

":^ 01 



332 



STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



M 


S^ 


to o 


n3 


h^ 


a 


o • 


W ID 




"S^ 



o 

tn 

(V 



^ :: -.^ •.:•■. -.^ -.(6 ■■'^ ■.■.■■■■■ -ai ■■■■ ■■ 

K^- : oj : : : . :* : ■^ :^ : :7'®^ :® i:!":! 
>». : . . . . . .q -z^u . .>>s>>-c .>»>> 

5: :3:::::3:,2:o-::535:p:2^ 
S . . ••-5 ■ • ■ ■ -^ _«* .-ai ■ ;S>-53 :'-5 :SS 

; O t- :••■! ^ •••• I ;••;;;•;;; ; 

'.^^ '.'.'.'..'.'.'.'.'.'.'■' d>e6 '■ da '■'■'■ '• 
: 'n 'S ::;:::;::.:;:>> >, >,>>::: : 

• D.Q ;-;;(BCtf;CBa:::: 

•'^'^ :"■::!::::.■ i'^^ -SS : : : : 
.CO : :::..::.■■.::'■..:. .'^ . : 

•_,?Jr-ICM-( • rHrt -CM "^SSS^ ...... 

• osci — — • — ;:— ■— =^s';:s " -o • • 

.(ssaaoa &aa -a -aaaacs • ■ • • cu • • 
■.^«« :«< ■< :s<<!j<iS : : : -.g : ; 



in 

S3 




CO 

a 








^ 




a 












lO 


»-( 


03 


a 


00 
t— 1 







a 






O • • iH ^OOCM03 re ITS 

. -00 CM . .QOt-i -O -lOlCrH 

cs .^^agaaag • -aa ■ • as § es d • a S S 

; i^^ :^ '^ ;^ i ; ; ;?^^ M : ; i :^ ; i 

;iHtH .t.1 '. i-i ' '^ '. . '."j^T^ '. '. ' \ %^ ' '• 

. . aa -a a • a ■ • • • aa a ■ • 

::« '--^i '<'.<'■'■'■ '■■ei-ei '.'■'■ \ '■ '■'!i ■ '■ 

.CMO -OO -lO -lO . . • ■ .1^ -/. ■ ■ ■ rA • ' ai ' ' 

■ -cscM -iH ---i --H . • • ;2jS ; ■ :cM : :S : ; 

. •(sa-ao.-a- • ■ -aa' -a- -a- ■ 

: ".a-^ :«:; •< :<! : : : :<il«i) : : '.<5 : ■'I • ; 

.:;::::::::.;;:::.': ;o ; • 

o ■ • -cMt-o-ti-H -w ■ ■ ■ -^^-: ■ /: ■ -oj . • 

•.'^ : : : ^"^ -^ ; -^^2225 :2 . :- : : 

. • • :3^ . = = • ^z:z:z:::i -s : :u :^ 

■.u : : :i«>)t^t-SH :>i.>»s-,t.t.iTH ■ u ■ ■ fi ■ >> 

• d . . -acBrtaacs ■csaaaa-a* ns -oj 



■ CM • -lOt- .ocD^:i . cc • . • • ^ ~; ■ d ■ '^ ■ oj 

• . • — • • — ~ -S "^^^t^^ ■ :2 " "o ■:2 
."3 . .<sa.o3aa.a.ojaaaa-a' ■ <^ ■ o< 

:?g : i'''^ :S;^'"2"^ ioT^c^ccd : : : -^ :o 

:^:: -cmco >-i „ cm...^^.cc 

• . • • — ■ • ■— ■^^^^'^:^:^ ■ ' ' ^^ o ■ z^ 
'■ o '■ 5*^ •55'-^5.5 -aaaaa- • ■«* -a 



:" : :2^^S?iS§^ : :o=6cod : : -^ : ; 

'..'■'■ :3 ■■" lO .-..— — — I. .CMy.-H 

.cj . .caacsraaacoffl -csaaaa- • -ess -d 



:a 

! D : 



« 

tn 

3 



: 3 
• ■a 

2d 
a£ o 

Sh U h 

d d a) 

S^iO — 
in o ^ 
d cs 3 
'C tn d 



■ d : i" '■ : 
• dj -^ . ■ 

: 3 : od : 

^ 6C _ m S d 

O a O ^3 e3 
i^d'si^^S 

3a§^S?§ 
r- d d dr^ £ 



: : o 
. " d 



A d 



d , 



3 3 0) 71 r- 

3! drt^ " 
-" c — ^ d 

>-. ^ 3 fl g=:.„ 

<^b£"2So» 

OT .^ d a aj g {J 
2^ ds^ O < 



3 in-H (Did m 



3 d d3-r H7;:n""i; 

33tncad-3333CD(i>o!- 



^ u a> < 
a> <D fl ' 
u u 3 : 



d : 

"S "3 

?f33 

► — u 
''■" 3 
«gd 

3 2.3 
£S5 



:|5S 



a 



d B! 

3 O 

- <^u 
305 

S^a 
3d<) 

''3 m 

Sip 



3 : 
a 
o d 

as 
a^ 

3i2 

— aj 

>> 



WINTER MEETING. 



333 



-si 
2 
O 



D3 
< 

M 
O 






H 
S 

H 

o 



63 
<1 



Lansing, 




CM cv: ira 10 





Mich 


GO 




Madison, 


CO 


CD l" CC I'- CD 


Wis 


JO 






■x> 


CDCMCD-* Oi 




00 


CMCC ITD^C ?0 




1 




CM 


'^ ?CCD r^ CT> 


cS 





CM 7C 'V iO rc 


CO 




1— f 

to 
0) 


tH 








a 


T-H 


0> l^ 00 00 


C5 


^ CM to 10 CO 


< 


CO 
1—1 






<:d 


CM t< r^ CM CM 




QO 


CM ?o tracD '^ 




00 






rM 






1^- 


T-tCM -•*< iO 00 




05 


X 'V iOCD Tt* 




00 






i-H 




a 








cc 


r^oo «-HO> T-i 


Oi 


CCCCCDCD ifS 




CO 






rH 




a 
a 










-♦-> 


10 


»0 000 00 Oi 


sS 


OS 


CM '^ coco 'H 


a 


00 




a 

S 






■-*< 


10 t:^o:>-* Oi 




05 


CM-J^iccr. -* 




CO 






•— I 






I"- 


l^ t^ CO *H i-( 


CO 


Oi 
00 

i-H 


oc -^loco 10 


O 












CD 


r- r-t to CO -^ 


-4-^ 


Oi 


CO M^ CO l-- lO 


t» 


00 














"O 


ira 


W*Ot- Oi 


^M 


Ci 


Csi *ttCO CO -^ 


c3 


00 




O 










■3 









-^ 


CM ^ ODCD CM 




05 


00 (OiCCD 10 


a 

C3 


QO 




■4-> 












c? 


TO 


— 1 -ti t— 't* 05 




O) 


oc -^ irscD -f 


3 


00 















w 


(M 


OO'^ ?0 Oi 


2 


OS 

00 

I-H 


"^ ■'fli ifS CD -t* 


l-H 














H-H 














■*-> 












































S 




>» 






V 








u 






c 






cd _ 






(S 






3^ 




0) 












<i; C3 QiCS 






lils 


<1 


^ 




1 



334 



STATE HORTICULTUEAL SOCIETY. 






a 



(S 





CO 




C5 




cc 








1(3 




Oi 


Si 

o 


s 


(H 






OS 




i^j 


OS 


A 


00 




1— ( 



03 



CDOOOOOCSCOOC^OtO 



lf5C<I10vOQO?OC^«0 



a 
a 



i-i5<i«;-*>racDi^cc050 



tHc^tO-^^lOCOt^XOiO 



g 

3 



a 







a 

3 



WINTER MfiETlNG. 



335 



o- 


1-H 
1^ 


CO 


:>! O 




■;r c^ 




■» -K 






CO 


rra 


-H <M 


I- 


I- CM 




33 rM 






CO 


I- 


00 o 


CO 


^ r^ 




i^ to 






CM 


CO 


1^ 


• o 


CO 


:d cm 




ri ~^ 






00 




•a cr. 




iX) —1 




« - 






lo 


M 


■« 05 


Ci 


O —( 






^a CO 






or 


CO 


-« i£> 


lO 


O —1 




-»i o 






-* 


ira 


05 05 


CO 


--0 rt 




•m O 






03 


o 


00 l^ 


CO 


-^ -( 




:c -* 






era 


00 


TO Ir- 


iQ 


as « 






t^ 






o 


C^ 


:c I— 


lO 


jra -H 




-* <o 






o 


-* 


t^ CD 


lO 


lO i-H 




JD I- 


t^ 


-1i -»* 


-*< 










w 




=> CM 


.-H 


in cc 


M^ 




c^ 










30 as 


** 


lO o 




irc 






1-C 




-H 00 


— H 


-* 05 


iO 




■o 










33 lO 


-^ 


-tl CO 


-* 




era 






^ 




CD n 


o 


-H W3 


-^ 




CM 






^ 






Cfl *-< 


t- 


:c «t 


era 




o 










33 r^ 


t^ 


-* CO 


era 




o 






—1 




00 -H 


if3 


-* o 


CM 




^- 




o o 


CM 


Ol CM 


CO 




03 




OO CM 


1-H 


K to 


era 




oo 




-1 CO 


o 


■* CO 


'■V 










I— ' 








0) 




TO 


a 




g 


01 






a 




>. 


^ 








ry 


.c 


s 


C 


■M 


+-> 


ce 


13 


a 


a 


o 


o 




1— 1 


*H 


A 


r=i 


<5 



336 



STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



es 



Q. 



w i-< O >* r^ -^ -^ O -^ CM CC O 

t- cc t- oc i.^ t^ t^ c:o c^ t^ CD 



«ra lo CD cc o :o t^ 00 1> i^ t^ 



O^CDin)CrCMCCCMOOl^ 



Si 
o 

es 



a 









Ci ^^ CO Oi c- o 00 ira ri c^ ^H t^ 
■^ii:5"^iom»fscDi-^L^i?-*r:) 

o 



^HQD^HiO0D»-(CDCD-<**f-( 






c 

r-t CO *i5 



tA 



m 



-»> in CD t - 00 o: o 



a «S 

,"^ ^ --H 



C*3 CC -f »ra *^ t^ QC C^ O rH 



CMC-iricMc^c^cMCMCMcoic CZJ 



WINTER MEETING. 



337 



c^ 


1^ 


to 




o 


a3 


C5 


05 






ft 







« 










lO 








o.^ 


1-1 





on 




ift 








CO 






's* 






w 




»o 








;jo 






r^ 







m 

n 
a 

<D 



3 

d 



in 

fl 
ca 

ID 

a 

6 

2 



'^ OS 


t- 


ai 




■^ CO 









H— 22 



338 



STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 





J — , — : — L.UJ — L. 

J- -» «e o A_ -. 
ei «* j» ""rT^ 



4 

o 



1 

i 



s 



1 



^ 

^ 



I 









^1 



^ 



WINTER MEETING. 



339 




o 




1-1 




w 




tft 


•^ 


> 


t^ 


H 


> 




H 


^ 


W 






K 


M 


m 


l-H 




S 



O 



^ 

r 



eg 






z 






•MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 



MISOEI.LANEOUS PAPEBS. 343 



WHEN WILL APPLE PLANTING BE OVERDONE? 

I am often asked this qaeslion. I say never ! Why ? Because 
the planting is not keeping step with the consumption. Again, the 
home of the apple is too circumscribed to supply the demands upon it. 
The area suited to the apple embraces the 40th parallel and two de- 
grees on either side of it ; that is the limit to successful apple growing. 
The demand for it is world-wide. Its consumption is as yet unknown 
in many countries. That it will force itself into recognition where now 
unknown is certain, especially when it becomes cheap enough to ex- 
port. Last season three million barrels of apples were exported for 
European consumption alone. The demand promises to be much 
greater this year. There are today in this vicinity many buyers for 
apple§ for export trade. All agree that the crop is too small to meet 
the demand. The apple is unlike most other fruit in that its keeping 
qualities are such, through the improved methods of caring for them, 
that they can be kept through a long season, giving plenty of time to 
ship long distances. Their fine flavor and health-giving properties 
make them almost a necessity. 

No, I do not look upon apple planting as I do many other fruits ; 
but there is much to learn about apple planting if you would succeed. 
Today there are thousands of bushels of apples in our orchards that 
are useless and rotting for reason of no market. This is to the inex- 
perienced a sure sign that the business is overdone. Is it? Let us 
see. In times past those of us coming from the east had our notions 
gained in the east, and planted such sorts as we were familiar with. 
These varieties, being of Northern origin, became fall varieties. In 
planting for commercial purposes only the best of late sorts should be 
grown. You should lay aside your preferences in this matter if you 
would succeed. 

Plant the big red varieties known to do well in your vicinity. For 
Missouri and Kansas, Ben Davis, Gano, York Imperial, Jonathan, Mis- 
souri Pippin. These five varieties will give more profit than a larger 
list. Grown in groups, so as to avoid mixing varieties, is the proper 
way. It is very annoying to have varieties scattered through your 
orchard. The young farmer who may plant an orchard of ten acres of 
the varities named will have, no doubt, more profit from the ten acres 
at the end of fifteen years than he will from the other ninety of his 
hundred-acre farm not so planted, but grown to other crops. The 



3i4 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

varieties named are of the best winter sorts, Jonathan excepted. Jona- 
than can, by early picking, be made to carry over into spring. Its 
color, size, flavor and bearing qualities make it a necessity. The other 
varieties named possess more points of excellence than any other four 
with which I am familiar. Good trees, bear young, bear often, large, 
red, good keepers, good for cooking, handsome, bruises don't show, 
are widely known and wanted for export. These are some of the good 
points of these varieties. Can you name any other list with so many 
good points ! I think not. 

How soon will apples begin to bear! An orchard well cared for, 
of vareties named, will bring returns in three to five years; not much, 
it is true, until seven or eight years old, when the returns will far ex- 
ceed any part of the farm not planted to fruit. I have picked two 
barrels of choice fruit per tree at eight years from planting. An or- 
chard, if well cared for, at twelve years should return from three to 
five barrels per. tree. This year, and it would apply to two years since 
1890, or three years in seven, when apples in the orchard were "worth 
$3.25 per barrel, making from $6.75 to $11.25 per tree. Seventj trees 
per acre would return $458.50 in the first case and $787.50 in the second. 

Now multiply these amounts by three, the number of crops since 
1890, and the chances are that the orchard alone would have paid for 
the whole farm. This does not tell the whole story, for the other four 
years have returned something. No one year has been an entire 
failure. One other of the seven produced a good crop, but owing to 
the over-production elsewhere the margin of profit was reduced to a 
minimum, yet leaving a balance of profit. Can anything so good be 
said of any other crop ? Surely not of wheat, rye, corn, oats, barley, 
potatoes or any agricultural crop. While it requires several years' 
patient waiting, when once established, the orchard is good for a gen- 
eration, while other crops must be planted annually. Orchards are 
less susceptible to the vicissitudes of the weather than are grain crops. 
In the purchase of trees always consult your home nursery. If you 
would avoid mistakes, to say nothing of imposition, the tree circulator 
is a very uncertain quantity. Buy only of nurserymen of known relia- 
bility. Then if deception has been practiced you have redress. Don't 
be afraid to plant apples, for overproduction is not yet and will not be 
while you are in the business. — Col. Frank Hoisinger, Western Fruit 
Grower. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 345 



GARDEN AND ORCHAKD. 

Some say to plant t: ees In t lie spi Ing, 

Anil some say In the lali ; 
But the worst are those who conipromfse 

And plant no trees at all. 



If you can't make up your niind whether the spring or autumn is 
the better time for tree-planting, try both. 



AMONG THE APPLES. 

Red, and russet, and yellow, 

l,ylng here In a heap- 
Pippins, rounded and mellow; 

Greenings for winter keep; 
Seek-no-furthers, whose blushing 

The soul of a saint would try, 
Tdl his lace showed the crimson flushing, 

The cheek of a Xorthern Spy. ^ 

Illd from the winter weather. 

Safe from the wind and sleet, 
Here In a pile together 

Russet and Pippin mtet. 
And in this dim and dusty 

Old cellar they fondly hold 
A breath like the grapes made musty 

By the summer's radiant gold. 

Each seems to hold a vagrant 

Sunbeam, lost from the sky. 
When the Illy blooms were fragrant 

Walls for the butterfly; 
And when the snow is flying, 

What feast In the hoarded store 
Of crimson and yellow lying 

Heaped high on the sandy floor. 

Fruitage of bright spring splendor. 

Of leaf and blossom time. 
That no tropic land can mend, or 

Take from this frosty clime— 
Fruit for the hearthstone meeting 

Whose flavor none can destroy. 
How you make my heart's swift beating 

Throb with the pulse of a boy. 

Apples, scarlet and golden. 

Apples, juicy and tart. 
Bringing again the olden 

Joy to the weary heart. 
You send the swift thoughts sweeping 

Through wreckage of time and tears 
To that hidden chamber, keeping 

The gladness of youth's bright years. 

—From Dumb Animals. 



346 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



VARIATION IN APPLES. 

When botanists study plants as species they are often surprised 
to find in the same genus of plants some species that have a remark- 
able tendency to vary. They will hardly find the same species grow- 
ing with what they call the normal character in any two localities. On 
the other hand, says Meehan's Monthly, they will find some species in 
which- the individuals seem exactly alike no matter in what part of the 
world they are found. This tendency to individuality is found among 
varieties of fruits just as much as among varieties of flowers, although 
it is not generally supposed. The Seckel pear is an illustration of 
this. Its peculiar flivor, a something which one can hardly describe, 
is always sufficient to decide that the one in question is a Seckel pear;, 
but the difference is in size and form, and the character of the russet- 
ing will vary so that we have known pomologists of experience some- 
times doubt whether the Seckel they had in hand was really a Seckel 
or not. The Baldwin apple is another class of varying individuals.. 
Some years ago, Mr. Engle, an authority on apple nomenclature resid- 
ing at Marietta, Pa, had one form of Baldwin so very far away from 
the normal character that he propagated it as a distinct kind, under 
the name of the Penn apple. The variations will frequently be found 
in the normal apple, the fruit being undoubtedly from the same tree or 
trees in the same orchard. Tae normal character of the Baldwin is to 
have the flesh of a greenish yellow tint, yet from the same tree will 
often be found one with the fl^sh cf a clear white, and again some in- 
dividuals of this white class will have a red linge of the skin streaked 
through the flesh. We have seen this difference in the color of the 
flesh so very prominent that good judges of apples will frequently 
doubt whether the fruit which can undoubtedly be proven to be Bald- 
win was really such. The chief interest in this question comes from 
the thought which often arises as to whether fruits can hybridize to 
such an extent as to influence the fruit that is actually hybridized. In 
the case of the Baldwins referred to, the impression that would arise 
in the mind of the orcharuist would be that the flowers had been fer- 
tilized by pollen from some variety with normal white flesh. The law 
of individual variation to which we have referred is quite sufficient to 
account for this or even greater changes. — Prairie Farmer. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 34T 



THE HOME ORCHARD. 

The home orchard and fruit-garden should contain a sufficient 
number of plants, vines and trees to grow an abundance of fruit 
for family use. Beginning with strawberries it should also contain 
raspberries, currants, gooseberries, grapes, cherries, quince, pears, 
plum and apples, and a number of varieties of each,ripeningin regular 
succession, so as to keep up a constant supply of good fruit the whole 
year. It would be a matter of causing health and pleasure if carried 
into practice. 

Yet, in place of this we find a great many farmers in Missouri who 
do not grow half enough apples and peaches to do their families, to 
say nothing of the other fruits. One fatal mistake made by many is 
the common practice of replanting the old orchard in place of planting 
a new one every 10 or 15 years. Not over one in ten of all the re- 
plants set in old orchards will ever reach a profitable bearing age. The 
mules, calves and stock get the most of them. 

The land for berries and small fruits should be very rich and pre- 
pared in autumn by deep plowing, pulverize it thoroughly and plant 
in spring. Cultivate and keep thoroughly clean of weeds and grass. 
Garden truck may be grown to advantage in the home orchard and 
fruit garden. 

Keep plenty of poultry and let the chickens have free access to 
your fruit garden and orchard, they will give you double service, to wit : 
in their product and in cleaning up insects and protecting your fruit. 
Bees are also a great help to the fruit-grower, and aid in the fertiliza- 
tion of the fruit buds, and in addition thereto furnish a supply of fresh 
honey. 

We hear much about spraying, and I am a friend to spraying, in 
fact the commercial fruit-grower must spray, but the farmer has not 
time nor will to do it. We have been spraying for the last 15 years, 
yet not one farmer in a hundred in Missouri is spraying. So permit me 
again to urge upon you the importance of clean cultivation and the 
keeping of poultry. 

If the family orchard and fruit garden is on deep rich soil and 
cultivated often and in a manner to keep a fine pulverized surface, and 
two to three hundred chickens are allowed to run in the same, you will 
have but little damage from insects, and this system of culture will 



348 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

hold the moisture, which to the people of Missouri is one of the most 
important factors in growing fruit. 

Save all your wood ashes and scatter broadcast over the ground 
and cultivate them in if the land is close and heavy, and if you can't 
get the ashes use lime ; it will cut the clay and tough close soil and 
liberate the plant food. 

Turkeys are also good to eat the insects. The poultry may be shut 
out of the fruit garden and orchard by the use of two-inch mesh wire 
fence three feet high, which is cheap and easily constructed. 

Gather up all wormy, scabby fruit, boil in water to kill the larvte 
of insects, then feed to hogs. 

If you have not followed the plan outlined in this article, please 
try it and if it does not prove a success please report to your humble 
servant. N. F. Murray, Oregon, Holt county. Mo. 



IMPOETANT WINTER ORCHARD WORK. 

Black knot may be held in check by proper treatment in the win- 
ter. The work should not be left until growth starts, as the disease 
may then spread to many trees. Cut off diseased branches some dis- 
tance below the point of visible attack, as the mycelium, or vegetative 
part of the fungus, spreads through the tissues beyond the point of 
apparent attack. The winter spores are mature now, or approaching 
maturity, and these, under favorable conditions, germinate and spread 
the disease. In pruning infected trees use care that the blade of the 
knife does not come in contact with the spores. There is no doubt 
that this disease is frequently carried to other trees by pruning. I 
have occasionally observed that in grafting the plum black knot makes 
its appearance where the scion is put onto the graft. 

Bladder plum or plum pocket occurs on different species of the 
plum, and is caused by different species of exoa€cus. It is of annual 
reoccurrence in different species of the plum. The swollen bladder, 
which is found on the Chickashaw and that type of plum, commonly 
recurs on the same tree. In some cases the diseased portions were 
very much greater than the sound. 

Cedar apple fungus and apple rust, as is; well known, is connected 
with the rust occurring on the crab apple. By removing the kidney- 
shaped brown galls on the red cedar in the winter, the cluster cup 
fungus of the apple may be prevented. Of course, where the 'cedar 
gall is very numerous, this may be quite troublesome. It is better not 
to have the red cedar in proximity to a bearing orchard. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 349^ 

Pear blight may be lessened by the exercise of a little precaution 
on the part of horticiiltnrists. If all the dead and blighted branches 
are cut off in the winter and the trees washed with a solution of cop- 
per sulphate, the amount is greatly reduced. 

Plum rot is severe in the Mississippi valley. It attacts many varie- 
ties of the cultivated red plum when ripe or nearly ripe, and frequently 
when half grown. Some seasons it is very severe during the flowering 
period, especially during moist and rainy weather. The fungus attacks 
the petals, stamens and pistil. Soon the whole branch becomes af- 
fected. In a few days not a single healthy flower will remain, and 
hence -crop failure. Careful observation will show that it starts from 
certain parts of the tree where the old attacked plums are hanging on 
the tree. The object lesson is plain. Eemove all the diseased plums 
in the fall. Rubbish heaps containing the spores of fungi are too 
often neglected. They should be burned. 

I have noticed for a number of years that spot disease of the 
cherry is very much more frequent in nurseries and old orchards and 
places where the disease has been known for years. This certainly is 
an indication that it can be prevented by removing the diseased leaves. 
This disease is so bad that the common varieties of the cherry cannot 
be grown from pits. Thus a lot of seedlings of Shadow Amarelle lost 
nearly all of their leaves in July. The disease should not only be 
treated with fungicides but the old leaves should be removed and 
burned. — L. H. Pammel, Iowa, in Orange Judd Farmer. 



APPLES FOR COLD STORAGE. 

Mr. W. J. Murray, connected with the cold storage department of 
the Armour Packing Co., in an interview given to the Kansas City 
Packer, makes the following suggestions about apples that are to go 
into cold storage. "Pick apples a trifle green — according to length of 
time they may be in storage, but not so green as to affect proper color 
when fully ripened. Throw out all apples that are small, misshapen, 
slightly bruised, wormy or very much off in color ; dispose of them as 
No. 2. It was never intended that any but perfect apples should go 
into cold storage, which cannot stop decay already begun, nor make 
imperfect apples perfect. Even perfect fruit that is full ripe cannot 
keep very long in cold storage. Remember that apples will be ex- 
amined carefully before they are purchased, and a few poor ones in a 
barrel of fancy stock may compel salesmen to sell the entire barrel on 
the value of the few imperfect apples. Every apple should be handled 



350 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

as carefully as a costly piece of brica-brac. All punctures or bruises 
of even the skin impair the keeping qualities. Tbe least bruise caused 
by rolling, dropping or throwing apples into barrels may start decay 
in one apple which will affect a dozen others around it. Face the bar- 
rels well, but back up the face by packing, goodsized, sound fruit right 
through. There is a growing demand for fancy apples packed in boxes, 
there being a large retail trade that will buy a box of apples where they 
won't take a barrel, and pay a little more in proportion. But this trade 
wants nothing but the best. Of course there will always be a demand 
for apples in barrels — and it is poor policy to use any but the best of 
barrels. Use liners, both at top and bottom, and use the smallest nails 
possible. Stencil faced end of barrel with name of variety of fruit 
and name of owner. Get the apples into the storage-room as soon as 
possible after they are picked. Barrels should not be rolled, but either 
carried or run in on tracks and boxes must not be thrown in a pile like 
cordwood, but laid down as gently as possible." 

To growers he adds : "Pack fruit for this season only ; get a 
reputation for good, honest pack, and in time your siock will com- 
mand a premium on the market. Not only should the fruit-grower 
make improvements every year in the growing and handling of his 
fruit, but the wide-awake cold storage concern will also make improve- 
ments towards the better keeping and marketing of fruit." The Packer 
says that among other changes to be made at this cold storage house 
this year, such soft varieties of apples as Huntsman, York Imperial, 
Jonathan, etc., will be kept in a temperature of 40 instead of 33, as has 
been the custom ; the reason of this being that in past experience the 
extreme cold temperature is the cause of "scalding." The house has, 
therefore, opened a room especially for these soft fruits, and all who 
agree with them in this can have their soft fruits held at this tempera, 
ture. They will also have a large ante room, into which the fruit will 
be first received, the temperature of which will be about 50 degrees, 
believing that sudden change from extreme heat to extreme cold is 
hurtful, and that the stock will hold up much better if gradually cooled. 
They will leave stock in this room at least twenty-four hours before 
putting it into the colder rooms. This, also, is at the option ot owner 
of the fruit. This room will also be of benefit to the fruit when taking 
it out in the warm spring days j for instead of going out from a tempera- 
ture of 33 to one of 85 or 90 degrees, it will be brought out gradually, 
thus preventing so much sweating, which takes the life out of apples. 
It is already a complaint among fruit-dealers that cold storage apples 
do not hold up well after coming out of storage. The cause is believed 
to be in the sudden great change, but by making this change gradual 



• MISCELLANEOUS PAPEHS. 351 

it will do away with this objection. The management has adopted a 
new system of stacking apples, so that, if the owner is a little carefal, 
there will never be any necessity of handling a single barrel until the 
owner is ready to take it out of storage, the idea being to handle the 
fruit as seldom as possible, — Farmers' Review. 



HOW TO KEEP APPLES. 

The proper temperature for keeping apples is as nearly 35 degrees 
Fahrenheit as it is possible to keep it, and in order to maintain this it 
will often be necessary in this climate to provide a separate place for 
storing the fruit, as the average cellar under the dwelling-house is 
wholly unfit for this purpose. If the cellar consists of several com- 
partments so that one can be shut off completely from the other, and 
the temperature in this kept below 40 degrees, it will answer the pur- 
pose very well. If this cannot be done, a cheap storage-house may be 
built in connection with the ice-house by building a room underneath, 
having it surrounded,with ice on the sides and overhead, with facilities 
for draining underneath, keeping the air dry by means of chloride of 
calcium placed on the floor in an open, water-tight vessel, such as a large 
milk crock or pan. In this way the temperature may be kept very near 
the freezing point the year round, and apples may be kept almost in- 
definitely. — Indiana Experiment Station. 



PRUNING APPLE TREES. 

I have studied the question of pruning apple trees and practiced 
on my own studies and observation, and after many years and much 
time spent and in losing an orchard of two acres by injurious trimming, 
I hit on what I consider the right time for our state and climate, and 
CO doubt the same practice will work well in other states. By trim- 
ming in all mouths from March l to July I, and by close watch, I am 
sure the best and safest time to trim apple trees is about the time the 
buds are opening or soon after. No trimming should be done after 
the 15th of June in any climate. While the buds are opening there is 
a full flow of sap, so at that time the wounds will heal over much 
sooner than at any other time in the year. When trees are trimmed in 
winter the wound will dry and crack, and oftentimes the bark will 
cleave off the wood, and in that case it will never heal over, and in all 
probability will cause premature decay. The pith of the limbs leads 



352 STATE HORTICULTUKAL SOCIETY. 

to the heart of the trees. The heart of a tree affected will always 
cause deterioration or death. 

TrimDiing is of much more importance than most people suppose. 
The anxiety of farmers to raise live-stocii and grain causes them to for- 
get the orchard to its utter neglect. They castrate the calves, lambs 
and pigs, but never think of taking a limb off a fruit tree. The or- 
chard needs feeding and nursing just as much as the live-stock on 
the farm. Every fall, as soon as the ground is slightly frozen, a 
good mulch should be spread on as far around as the roots 
extend. The mulch will keep the roots from freezing and thaw- 
ing, and hold the frost in the ground in spring so that the buds 
will not open so early as to be injured by late freezing. 

In trimming, 1 never cut off a limb over an inch through, if I can 
avoid it and do justice to the tree. Sometimes two limbs may cross 
each other, and then it may be necessary to take off one of them. 
Then oftentimes that can be avoided by placing a spreader in between 
them or tying off to another limb. Such unnatural growth can be 
avoided if the orchard is cared for in its younger days. 

The nurserymen never trim trees to ship to their customers ; so 
the recipient must exercise his best judgment in trimming. I have 
often been told, while performing that duty, "Oh, man, you are ruining 
that tree!" But I never suffered loss by so doing. Some years ago, 
in passing a neighborhood that had an apple orchard of some eight or 
ten years' growth, I saw the proprietor trimming it. I called to him, 
"George, you are ruining your orchard ! " He came to me and said, 
"What do you know about trimming apple trees?" I told him I knew 
enough about it to know that not one tree in ten of those he had 
trimmed would be alive over three years — and so it proved. He had 
trimmed about one-half of the orchard then ; by my advice he left oft'. 
The half left grew and flourished, but, as predicted, the trio^med part 
died. Every wound should.be covered with tar or paint. Scraping 
off the rough bark and whitewashing should be practiced once in two 
years at least. Nothing on the farm pays better than a well-cared-for 
apple orchard. — E. Reynolds, Fond du Lac county. Wis., in Country 
Gentleman. 



TOP GRAFTING IN COMMERCIAL ORCHARDS. 

Appearance has much to do with the selling value of trees. 
Qaality, evenness of growth and ripeness of wood are most important. 
Town lot property that will admit of but very few trees and where it is 
possible to plant two or three each of the apple, plum and cherry, can 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 353 

be made to produce a succession of fruits. The entire fall list of apples, 
as Wealthy, Haas, Lowell, Snow, can be produced on one tree. The 
summer list, as Duchess, Red June, Sweet June, Benoni, on another, 
and Ben Davis, Jonathan, Grimes Golden, Janet, on another. 

A pleasing lot of combinations can be made with different varieties 
in the different seasons. Also with respect to color, degree of acidity, 
mildness of flavor. To illustrate. It is entirely possible to give a 
patron a tree bearing three or more kinds of sweet apples, ranging 
through different seasons, or a tree bearing four different colored ap- 
ples, as Jonathan, Grimes, Huntsman, Aunett, or Jersey Black, being 
red, yellow, bronze, and black, respectively. In plums, quite a con- 
siderable advantage can be given a planter in length of season. I 
believe that mixed tops will give the most satisfaction and best results. 

The stock most suitable for the apple is the Virginia crab, but on 
light prairie soils, Haas is good and to it could be added Duchess, upon 
which to work slow-growing varieties such as Red June, Early Joe, 
Wealthy, and more moderate growers, as Benoni and Djer. From the 
behavior of the Hybernal we would regard it as a good stock for north 
and would add Walbridge and Iowa Blush, for central Iowa or the 
southern circuit where such work would be profitable or necessary. 
The Virginia crab has few objections as a tree to top work. It makes 
a heavy six-foot tree f inch caliper and upward at three years. Prac- 
tice budding in the tops six to ten inches from the forks in August, on 
three-year-old trees, using either dormant buds held over in ice or cold 
storage, or green buds if weil enough developed. Cut back to these 
buds the following spring, or the work can be deferred until the follow- 
ing early June or late May, when the buds can be set and developed 
into branches at once. — W. M. Bomberger, Iowa, in Orange Judd. 



PLANT RUSSIANS CAUTIOUSLY. 

After ten years of extensive trial it must be said that for the south 
half of Iowa at least the experiment with Russian fruit has been not 
only a disappointment, but a serious and costly failure. To recom- 
mend the extensive planting of these fruits in this district would now 
seem little less than criminal. 

It is well to be enterprising and keep as near the front of the pro- 
cession in one's own calling as possible, but in a few ways is it easier 
to lose money than to be too ready to plant largely of new and untried 
varieties because some one recommends them. If a new fruit or plant 
is offered, having originated near by and under substantially the same 
conditions, it may safely be planted with far less experience than if it 
H— 23 



3:4 STATE HOETICULTUBAL SOCIETY. 

comes from a different botanical region, especially if from another con- 
tinent. A seedling must find favor at its place of origin, if at all, for 
the reason that it is especially adapted to the conditions of soil and 
climate prevailing there. It succeeds there because its constitution is 
fitted to those conditions, audit follows of necessity that the chances 
are strongly against it being equally well adapted to succeed under the 
quite different conditions of a different state or country. 

All this was specially emphasized the past season ( 1896 ) of unin- 
terrupted sun, which was so favorable to the rapid increase of insect 
life, so that we may properly consider this as one of the beneficial les- 
sons taught by our lean year. The season was not without its uses 
also in winnowing out from our lists undeserving varieties. I will not 
attempt to account for the facts observed, but it was true on my 
grounds, as I pointed out to many visitors, that foreign varieties of 
fruit of late introduction suffered far worse from insect ravages than 
the average of our old sorts cultivated and acclimated here for a quar- 
ter century or more. 

The Eussian apples, both in nursery and in orchards, were exam- 
ples strikingly in point. There was an unusual activity of the leaf rol- 
ler and leaf skeletonizer, and but for the spraying apparatus, the in- 
jury would have been irreparable. 

In one nursery of two-year trees, one might readily distinguish 
two hundred yards away the rows of Russians of the Hibernal family, 
intermingled with the rows of various older sorts, the broad leaves of 
the Russians turning red and dry under the same care which produced 
a fair degree of health and vigor in the leaves of the others. I can 
only account for this lack of resistance on the part of the foreigners 
by the fact that our conditions must have been* in some manner less 
favorable to their vigor than the conditions of their native places. 

One of our most famous physiologists affirms that it takes at least 
four generations of men to adapt a people to the conditions of a con- 
tinental change of climate, and that the adaptation is secured only at 
the expense of much mortality and a profound change of physical and 
nervous organization. Now, it is a plain fact that a tree must be far 
less able to withstand the vicissitudes of a change than a man who 
may vary at will his food and dress and shelter, ais seems to suit his 
physical needs, while the tree or plant is rooted to one place and sub- 
ject to the full force of every unfavorable influence. I have thought 
it advisable to grub out the last of my Russian plums and cherries, 
and I believe that the last of the pears and apples, save one or two, 

must share the same fate C. L. Watrous, Iowa, in Orange Judd 

Farmer. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 355 



THE GANG APPLE. 

As the Gano apple is increasing in popularity in the Ozark country 
we are sure that readers ot the Southwest will be interested in the fol- 
lowing particulars, which we obtained at Moberly during the meeting 
of the State Horticultural Society, in an interview with the honored 
citizen who originated this apple, Mr. W. C. Gano of Parksville. He 
has a iOacre orchard, and is making a strong effort to retreive his 
losses of a few years ago. His trees are mostly of the Gano variety. 
The tree, he says, in its growth is identical with the Ben Davis. Some 
claim that the Gano apple is a cross between the Ben Davis and the 
-Jonathan, but this is a mistake. Mr. Gano says the apple was origin- 
ated in an orchard that never had a Jonathan tree in it. This orchard 
was planted in 1844. Mr. Gano came into possession of the place in 
1869. Some of the trees were Ben Davis and others were seedlings. 
The Gano tree became famous for its beautiful fruit, and cuttings were 
freely made from it, but Mr. Gano never made a cent from the sale of 
scions from this tree. Nurserymen propagated the apple, and thou- 
sand^ of trees will be set this season in this and other states. The 
apple is not so large as the Ben Davis, but is large enough, is deeper 
colored, a little more juicy and as good a keeper. 

Mr. Gano, as is generally known, was one of the Olden Fruit Com- 
pany, and gave four of the best years of his life as superintendent of 
that farm. He retired from the company when L. A. Goodman went 
out. The best wishes of everyone who reads these lines will go out to 
W. G. Gano. 



THE BEN DAVIS APPLE. 

Of late years much that is detrimental has been said of this apple. 
No doubt it has its faults the same as other varieties of keeping apples. 
The oft-repeated assertion that they were pithy and tasteless is true to 
some extent at picking time. But keep the apple until January or 
later and note the wonderful improvement that has come over it. 

The character of the soil, location, etc., where apples are grown, 
has much to do with the size, taste and color. Apples that are grown 
on low land are never as good as those grown on upland. Ben Davis, « 
or any other apple, grown along the creek bottoms will not compare 
for size and color with those of the same type grown on higher ground. 



356 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

Twelve years ago a neighboring fruit-grower, Eli Wheaton, set out 
50 apple trees— 40 Rome Beauty and 10 Ben Davis. They were set 
out side by side and have received exactly the same treatment since. 
The orchard is on high land, facing to the south. The soil is of a 
sandy nature, with a little light clay mixed. 

In the fall of 1895 nine barrels of salable apples were picked from 
the 10 Ben Davis. Last year they were also full of fruit. This sea- 
son, when the winter visited the orchard, on September 22, they were 
moderately full of nice, sound apples that were coloring up finely. The 
40 Rome Beauty that stand by their side have not so far produced a 
single crop. The trees look thrifty, and, although they were full of 
bloom last spring, there is not a tree that has on it to exceed a peck 
of small and inferior apples. 

The trees have been thoroughly and properly trimmed, and the 
fruit on one should be the same as the other. It has been intimated 
by some that the Ben Davis was a slow seller. Yes, they are, if yoa 
grow an inferior type. So is any other inferior apple. 

The talk that the Ben Davis is looked down on by the buying pub- 
lic is only the talk of those that have been unsuccessful in growing- 
them. Show me a nice, smooth red apple and I will guarantee you it 
will sell regardless of its name. The apples produced by the grower 
in question, of the Ben Davis variety, have found sale side by. side 
with Rome Beauty and others at the same figure. 

The day of the Ben Davis apple is no more past than is the day 
of the Rome Beauty or other winter varieties that are grown for com- 
mercial purposes throughout this section. Indeed, on more than one 
fruit-grower's farm has the Ben Davis proven the bearer, while the 
Rome Beauty and others failed to mature a crop. They have often of 
late years olossomed profusely, set many apples, bat they have princi- 
pally dropped off before picking time. It looks in some instances as 
if the Rome Beauty, a native of the State, has had its day, instead of 
the much abused Ben Davis, which is surely an apple that is holding 
ita own in this section. 

That the Ben Davis is a good keeper is admitted by all. While at 
picking time they may be inferior in taste to some other winter varie- 
ties, how about the same apple in the late winter and early spring 
months ? It is then the apple is at its best. Then, too, most other 
apples are gone and the best prices prevail. The apple that at picking 
time was not the best eating one is now at its proper season. If they 
have been grown on upland they are not tasteless and will sell in any 
market. 

The main drawback in setting out the Ben Divis, as well as any 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 357 

■other apple, is to know whether or not they are adapted to your soil and 
climate. Visit the orchards in the vicinity and note the character of 
the soil that the different varieties do best on. This can easily be 
found ont from the owner of the orchard, who will be glad to impart 
any information that he has. This is the surest and best way to ascer- 
tain, beyond a doubt beforehand, the apple that will do best for you. 
If you find that the Ben Davis does well in the vicintyon the same soil 
as yours, do not hesitate, but set out an orchard of them. If on the 
the other hand, you find that repeated failures have been had with the 
Ben Davis, while at their side some other variety has done well, it will 
be policy to set out that kind. — Cincinnatti Commercial Gazette. 



WHY BA.RRELLED APPLES KEEP. 

If apples were placed loosely in barrels they would soon rot, 
though passing over only a very short distance of travel, and yet, when 
properly barreled, they can be sent thousands of miles, even over the 
roughest ocean voyage, in perfect security. This owing to a fact dis- 
covered years ago, without anyone knowing particularly the reason, 
that an apple rotted from a bruise only when the skin was broken. An 
apple can be pressed so as to have indentations over its whole surface 
without any danger of rotting, providing the skin is not broken. In^ 
barreling apples, therefore, a gentle pressure is exercised, so that the 
fruit is fairly pressed into each other, and it is impossible for any one 
fruit to change its place in the barrel on its journey. In these modern 
times we understand the reason. In the modern times the air is full 
of microscopic germs which produce fermentation, and unless they can 
get an entrance into the fruit, rot cannot take place. A mere indenta- 
tion without a rupture of the outer skin does not permit the action of 
those microbes. — Meehan's Monthly. 



SUGGESTIONS TO APPLE PACKERS. 

Apples from the Austrian Tyrol which retail in German markets 
at high prices are beautiful in appearance and firm of tissue, though 
inferior to the best American apples in flavor and juiciness. These 
apples are carefully picked by hand when dry, or if damp when gath- 
ered, are thoroughly dried, and then placed by hand closely in barrels 
lined with heavy manilla paper. At the bottom and top of the cask is 
placed a thick layer of ''wood wool," or excelsior, or dry soft straw, 



358 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

and the barrel head being pressed down over this and fastened, the 
fruit is held firmly by the pressure of these two elastic cushions^ 
Finally holes are bored through the side and both heads, which will 
admit air, and in this manner fruit is brought from the Alpine slope so 
free from injury it will keep throughout the winier without being un- 
packed or opened Exchange. 



COST OF DEVELOPING A PEACH ORCHARD. 
ESTIMATE FROM CONNECTICUT. 

It is very difficult to make estimates that will cover the situation 
extendedly, so much depending upon the character of the soil to be 
worked and local prices of labor in the various sections of the country. 
To plow and prepare an acre of land for peach-planiing costs all the 
way from $5 to $25. The planting will cost from $4 to $10, and the 
annual cultivation from $10 to $30 per acre. Then, of course, comes 
the cost of trimming of trees, thinning of fruit and fighting of insect 
and fungous pests, which will vary every year from $5 to $25 per acre, 
according to conditions. Then marketing the fruit, careful picking, 
proper grading, packing and selling, will cost from 20 to 35 cents per 
half-bushel basket. If one were to take a share of the crop for market- 
ing, one-third would probably be a fair average compensation. 

In some sections of the country I should want more than that, and 
in other sections it could be done for less. I know figures are given 
out by land agents and others, who are trying to develop the peach 
business so as to sell lands, that are very much below these presented 
herewith, but to build up and maintain a profitable peach orchard, the 
amounts of money I have named wil) have to be expended. This esti- 
mate is based on the experience of planting and establishing more than 
1,500 acres on a great variety of soil. — J. H. Hale. 

MICHIGAN ESTIMATE. 

There are so many conditions that would modify the cost, such as; 
character of soil, price of labor and frequency of a crop, that only an 
approximate estimate can be given. The cost of plowing, harrowing, 
marking, planting and pruning the trees would vary from $6 to $12 per 
acre, with $10 as a safe average, where a large area is to be planted. 
Cultivating, hoeing and pruning to form the head would cost $4 or $5, 
One dollar could be spent in the fall for seed and sowing of some 
cover crop. The next year the pruning will cost perhaps 50 cents per 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPEBS. 359 

acre, and this will increase each year until the trees are full grown, 
when, if they are headed back, the expense will be $o to $10. 

There will also be each year $5 to $10 for plowing, harrowing, cul- 
tivating and hoeing. When the trees come into bearing the thinning 
will run from $2 up to $8 or $10, and there should also be an account 
made of hunting for borers, jarring for curculio, or spraying for this 
and other insects and the various fuuguous diseases. In some sec- 
tions that I know of the entire cost of picking, packing and marketing 
does not exceed 10 cents per bushel, while in others it is seveial times 
that amount. 

The crop and the returns are so uncertain that one would hardly 
be justified in taking an orchard on shares. Thus last year with a full 
crop and glutted markets many growers allowed the fruit to remain on 
the trees, as the returns did not pay for the cost of marketing. This 
year the cop is a failure in all except a dozen counties along Lake 
Michigan, and there with a quarter or a half crop the orchards are 
proving quite remunerative owing to the prices secured. — Prof. L. E. 
Taft. 

AN OHIO OPINION. 

To set trees, plow, harrow and mark off will cost probably $6 to 
$8 per acre. To keep the land cultivated about $8. To gather about 
10 cents per bushel, including hauling to packing house, and about five 
cents per bushel to grade and pack. Of course, the above is only an 
estimate. I have 600,000 peach trees in orchard in Georgia and Ken- 
tucky. — !JT. H. Albaugh. 

FROM NEW JERSEY. 

It is our experience that it will cost about $7.50 per acre to plow, 
harrow, mark off and set peach tiees 18 by 18 feet. The annual culti- 
vation will cost from $4 to $5. The cost of marketing the crop will 
naturally depend upon the size of the crop, character of the fruit and 
the distance from market, and it is, therefore, ditficult to make a fair 
estimate. — Prof. B. D. Halsted. 



NATIONAL EXPERIMENTS IN PEACH CULTURE. 

The following extract from the minutes of the last meeting of the 
Association of Colleges and Stations gives the outline of the work to 
be undertaken : 

" A paper prepared for the section by R. H. Price, of Texas, was 
concluded by the following memorial : In view of the importance of 



360 . STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

this classification to snccessful peach culture in the United States, I 
wish to make the following recommendations : 

"1. That a committee of three be appointed to be known as a, 
committee on co-operative work in testing the different races of 
peaches. 

" 2. This committee shall consist of one horticulturist from one 
I^'orthern station, one from one Southern station, and one from one 
Central station. 

"3. The work of this committee shall be to find out, as far as pos- 
sible, the isotherm in which each race is adapted. 

"4. The committee may recommend to as many stations as may 
be thought necessary a list of varieties from the races, to test and 
report upon. 

"5. The committee shall make out a suitable blank to be printed 
by the United States Department of Agriculture, and also to be dis- 
tributed by this department to the stations engaging in the work. 

" 6. Each station will be asked to pay for its own trees. 

" 7. The results of this work, together with the description of 
the races will be written up by the committee, and will be published 
by the United States Department of Agriculture. 

" After being read, the memorial was referred to a committee con- 
sisting of ProCs. Goff, Mason and Munson. The recommendation of 
the committee was that the following named gentlemen be made a per- 
manent committee to carry on the co-operative work of testing the 
several races of peaches in the various sections of the United States. 
The permanent committe is as follows : Prof. E H. Price, Texas ; Prof. 
B. J. Wicson, California; Prof. G. H. Powell, Deleware, and Prof. L. 
R. Taft, Michigan." — American Gardening. 



PEACH GROWING. 

The cultivation of the peach is just no w^ attracting some attention 
in New England, owing in a large measure to the success of Hon. J. 
H. Hale, of Connecticut, and a few others, but much more might be 
done in other sections where none are now grown. 

I remember that when I was a boy, almost every garden had a few 
peach trees. At home the appetite of two vigorous growing boys could 
not consume all that fell from the trees. If we called on any of our 
school-mates, we sampled a few of their peaches, and then they came 
over to see if ours were not better. If an unlucky or unthrifty neigh- 
bor had none at home, they could come to our garden or go to many 
others in the neighborhood and pick up a basketful when they pleased. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 361 

And many of those trees were healthy and vigorous at 20 years 
old or more, and bore nearly every year. Some were 20 to 30 feet in 
height, and from four to six inches through the trunk. 

Yet, in that whole region now scarcely a peach tree can be found, 
and those who helped us eat those peaches, if alive (alas, how few 
could now be found ), would assert that peaches could not be grown 
there. 

Why is this, and if peaches can be grown as easily as they could 
then, why have the trees disappeared, and if new ones have been set 
in their places, why have they died in a few years, yielding only one 
crop, and often not that? 

I have my opinions upon these questions, and propose to give 
them before I close. It is not because those trees were natural fruit, 
and therefore hardier than the varieties of today, for while there were 
some such, many were of budded stock, and of such sorts as are even 
now considered among the best standard varieties. Early York, Early 
and Late Crawford, Halis, Melocoton, Old Mixon, both freestone and 
clingstone, are among the varieties that 1 knew nearly a half century 
ago as vigorous and productive, and for a family garden at a nearby 
market they cannot be much excelled today. 

It is not because the soil was new then, because some of those old 
gardens had been in cultivation more than two hundred years before I 
was born; but in those days the gardens were not manured altogether 
with the heating manure from grain-fed horses. The manure was usually 
a compost of all the contents of the barnyard, where from three to six 
cows were kept for every one horse. People then burned wood in- 
stead of coal, and the ashes was used, either leached or unleached, 
upon the cultivated fields, furnishing in manure and ashes, potash and 
phosphoric acid with but little nitrogen. 

Then, too, there were many trees of natural fruit, small, not of 
first quality for eating or even for cooking, late in ripening and the 
trees hardy in their native soil. It was from the seed of such peaches 
that the stocks were grown into which were set the buds of better 
varieties, and the stocks imparted something of their native vigor and 
hardiness to the tree. There were also native fruit known as the Rare- 
ripes, which would usually produce the same from seed, and required 
no budding to produce fruit which then was classed as of first quality 
for home use, though not firm enough for shipping far to market. 

The manure used around the trees or on the crops grown among 
them was not calculated to force a rapid or a rank growth 'of wood, 
too tender to withstand the cold weather, nor was it applied in the fall 
to stimulate growth as soon as the ground thawed in the spring, or 



362 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

possibly daring the "January thaw," which was supposed to be a part 
of the regular programme for the winter, and thus the danger froaa 
winter killing was lessened. 

That mysterious disease, known as the "yellows," had not then 
become prevalent, as it did later on, to the destruction of many fine 
trees. 

Much has been said about the change in our climate, and it does 
seem as if we had not as many deep and long-abiding snow drifts as I 
used to wade through when I attended school in those days, but if 
there has been a change the peach tree has flourished in some sections 
despite it all, and I believe it will do so now if it is properly treated.. 
If the conditions spoken of above can be reproduced, and the care in 
all other respects which is necessary is given, the farmer can have 
peaches to eat and to sell, and his wife can have them to can, without 
being dependent on the Delaware and Michigan peninsulas, or paying 
tribute to the commission merchants of Xew York and Boston or to 
the dealers nearer home. 

And more important than the saving of commissions will be the 
privilege of having fruit thoroughly ripened on the tree, and freshly 
picked, instead of the partly ripe, partly rotten fruit that is now palmed 
off upon buyers. 

In a future article I will give a few hints not entirely from my own 
experience, but from the best authorities upon successful peach grow- 
ing. — Ames, in Amer. Cultivator. 



AMONG THE PEACHES. 

During the warm weather prevailing in December, I ventured the 
opinion that, with the manifest swelling of the fruit buds, if the usual 
cold weather of January prevailed, the injury that would follow would 
cut short the crop for 1897. 

The low mercury of the early part of last week induced consider- 
able anxiety upon the part of the peach-growers of this vicinity lead- 
ing to a careful investigation of the condition of varieties ; and I find 
my predictions in a measure confirmed, with more or less damage to 
all orchards upon low grounds, while those well elevated have escaped 
reasonably well. 

The fact, however, has been demonstrated beyond question that 
the true policy for the peach-growers of western New York is to plant 
varieties of known hardiness, as an insurance against climatic conditions 
that cannot be controlled it this department of fruit-growing be ac- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 363^ 

corapanied with satifactory results. The Michigan growers have made 
this a cardinal feature of their work, hence their success. With them 
the first question is, "Is the variety hardy in the fruit bud ?" If not, 
we have no use for it. 

I herewith submit a statement of the condition of varieties ex- 
amined today in my orchard, suggesting that all of the Crawford type 
suffered in the greatest degree, in many of which all buds were killed 
outright, while enumerating a list found in fairly good condition. The 
larger portion of this list is among those regarded as standard and 
reliable sorts grown in Michigan, while as a rule they have not found 
a place in New York orchards. The field is one of interest, and it is 
possible we can learn much of value from our friends on the shores of 
Lake Michigan. Varieties marked good are those in which scarcely 
an injured bud could be found, while two-thirds and one-half indicate 
respectively the amount of uninjured buds counted upon the branches 
cut and examined with care : 

Hill's Chili, Golden Drop, Kalamazoo, Salway, Tyhurst, Hynes 
Surprise, Lewis Seedling, Horton's Rivers, Early and Wheatland are 
classed as good ; Crosby, Red Cheek Melocoton, Morris White and 
Elberta, two-thirds ; Steven's Rareripe, one-half. 

For years the old Red Cheek Melocoton has shown itself as the 
most hardy of all of the Crawford type. A peach well known and popu- 
lar years ago and yet today scarcely recognized. Have we not in our 
haste to make tlie acquaintance of new candidates for public favor 
made the mistake of overlooking varieties of greater merit! — S. D.W. 
in Country Gentleman. 



PRUNING THE PEACH. 

It is seldom one hears much about the pruning of the peach. It 
is usually the apple or the pear that is spoken of or written about. It 
is true that it is not such a universal fruit as the others mentioned, as 
it will not succeed in all situations. Still it is one fruit above all others 
in some places, and in many city gardens room is found for a peach or 
two, vthere spreading trees like the apple cannot be accommodated. 

It is the fashion to believe that there are localities where peaches 
were once grown in which they will not now succeed, but if there are 
those who cannot make them grow in such places it is more probable 
that it is because of exhausted soil than from any other cause. 

It is too often the sight now to see peaches set out in newly 
cleared land, with no manure at ail given them. The trees grow well 
enough for two or three years, until what little food the ground con- 



364 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

tained has been exhausted. Then yellow leaves appear and stunted 
growth, just at a time when extra food is required in* anticipation of 
the calls crops of fruit will make. 

A great deal of the difficulty experienced in keeping peach trees 
healthy comes from starved trees. Peach trees may be planted either 
in the spring or fall. One year old from the bud is the proper kind to 
get. If the trees are pretty well branched, as they sometimes are even 
when so young, it is best to prune them in pretty close. For orchard 
purposes, high-branched trees are not desirable. It is better, there- 
fore, to aim for low-branched ones, and these can be had by heading 
the trees back when planting them, leaving them when set to be about 
five feet high. Branches will push out for a foot or so below the top, 
leaving the tree branched from about four feet up. It is easier to 
gather fruit from such a low branched tree, and less fruit is blown off 
in gales, besides that the ground is mose shaded from the sun and is 
cooler than under the other system. 

As the trees grow year by year they should get a little pruning 
annually. It is too much the fashion to let the branches form and grow 
as they will, resulting in trees with long branches, the fruiting twigs on 
the extremities, and the inside limbs bare of twigs of any kind. This 
need not be. If a little pruning be given every year there will result 
model trees, with twigs from top to bottom of the branches, which will 
bear fruit. What is required is to keep up a little shortening in every 
year. This can be done when the tree is growing as well or better than 
at any other. The end nipped off from a growing shoot will result in 
the formation of perhaps three or four where the one was. 

When shortened in winter the number of new shoots is not increased 
perceptibly, hence the desirability of summer pruning. Trees pruned 
in this way never require any heavy cutting of branches, consequently 
there are no scar§ to be painted, and as the trees grow they seem to 
increase in beauty. They become of good outline, are clothed with 
blossoms from bottom to top in spring, and afterwards are laden with 
fruit in the same way, very different to the average peach tree generally 
s«en. — Practical Farmer. 



CLASSIFICATION OF VARIETIES OF PEACHES. 

That there are well-defined types of peaches which behave differ 
ently in different latitudes is well-known, and some knowledge of the 
classification of varieties as affected by climate is necessary, not only to 
the practical grower, but to the scientist as well. The peach has been 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 305 

80 modified by climatic influence and crossing of the different types 
that it is difficult to devise a system which will include all varieties and 
not be subject to some criticism. But if a system can be devised by 
which one can distinguish a large number of varieties and predict 
within a reasonable degree of certainty which types are likely to suc- 
ceed in a given section, a long step is made in the direction of most 
valuable knowledge. 

There are types coming from China, Japan and Java, and others 
which are now being built up in the southern part of the United States, 
which the above points do not distinguish with clearness. We have 
seedlings from the Honey peach which came from China in 1854; seed- 
lings from the Peen-to, which came from Australia in 1869; then, again, 
there are seedlings of the Spanish or Indian type, all of which are 
adapted to more southern latitudes than those of the Persian strain, 
which constitute the bulk of northern orchards. These new types are 
proving valuable along the Gulf states, where the peach has not been 
grown as successfully as it has farther north. It is important now 
that the botanical characteristics of each type (which we shall call 
race for^a better term) should be recorded with clearness, and the cli- 
mate in which each grows best be pointed out. 

From what I have thus learned it seems to me that what is known 
as the " Onderdonk classification " is the best. An outline of this 
scheme appears in the report of the United States Department of Ag- 
riculture for 1887, page 648. Some of the distinctions made in this 
classification cannot be noticed with decisive clearness a few hundred 
miles farther north, but in the semi-tropical climate of the coast region 
the characters are striking. This at once indicates that the differ- 
ent races originated in different degrees of latitude and at different 
altitudes. These facts are further substantiated by botanical charac- 
teristics. We divide the peaches now cultivated in the United States 
into five races: (1) Peen-to, (2) South China, (3) Spanish or Indian, 
(4) North China and (5) Persian. By race is meant "a variety so 
fixed as to reproduce itself with considerable certainty by seed." 

Seed characteristics The shape, size and corrugations of the seed 

are so well marked in the more distinct representatives of the differ- 
ent races that after a little practice one can distinguish them apart by 
this means alone. 

The seed of the Peen-to is nearly round, much compressed at the 
ends, corrugations small and somewhat rounded. The seed of the 
Honey is oval, with apex slightly recurved, corrugations slight, promi- 
nent flange on one side. Seed of Spanish is large, oval, nearly flat, 
apex prominent, corrugations very long and wide, at the base they run 



366 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

more longitudinally than in any other race, flinge on one side often 
prominent. Seed of i^orth China is nearly round, very thick, corru- 
gations rather slight and irregular, apex rather prominent. Seed of 
the Persian is somewhat round, more flattened at the base than any 
other, corrugations prominent toward apex, but very seldom extend to 
base, apex more or less prominent. A resemblance can be seen between 
the Spanish and Persian, and as there is no definite history in regard 
to the origin of the Spanish it is probable the types had the same origin. 
The Indian type of the Spanish can only be distinguished from the 
Persian in many cases by the heavy down on the fruit, which is charac- 
teristic of the Spanish. 

THE DIFFERENT RACES AS AFFECTED BY CLIMATE. 

T. Peen-to (Primus platycarpa^ Decne). Tree rather large ; 
branches vigorous, willow-like, branching at an angle of about forty 
degrees ; flowers large, opening early, frequently in January in the 
Oulf states, often at a low temperature and very irregularly ; leaves nar- 
row and long, inclined to be evergreen ; fruit much flattened ; skin 
white and mottled with carmine ; flesh white ; flavor^weet, with pecu- 
liar almond tang. It is adapted to the northern part of the citrus belt, 
in which climate it ripens from May 1 to June 1. It has a tendency to 
sport, and some valuable varieties are now coming from it for the ex- 
treme southern part of the Gulf states where other races will not grow 
successfully. 

II. South China Race, — (The parent of this race is the Honey 
peach, Pfunus Persica. B. <& H.) Tree medium sized ; branches leav- 
ing the trunk at an angle of about fifty degrees and curving upward ; 
buds quite prominent ; flowers always large and very abundant, with 
greater resisting power against cold than any other race tested in this 
climate ; has borne crops annually during the past four ye'\r8, when 
many other varieties belonging to different races failed ; foliage small, 
slightly conduplicate, distributed all along the limb, color dark green, 
in fall slightly tinged with red; requires short season of rest; fruit 
rather small, somewhat oval in shape, slightly flattened, suture very 
deep at basin, but does not extend more than one-third the way down ; 
apex long and recurved ; flavor peculiar, honey sweet. Supposed to 
have originated in southern China, from which the seed came. This 
race is adapted to more southern climates than any other, except the 
Peen-to. Honey seedlings are proving very valuable for the southern 
Gulf states. 

III. Spanish Race. — Tree very large, except in Indian type, which 
evidently has considerable Persian blood, judging from the color of 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPEBS. 367 

the young wood, which is reddish, the naked places on the bearing 
wood and the corrugations on the pit and its general shape; limbs 
large, long and spreading ; branches low and drooping ; flowers nearly 
always large ; leaves small and flat, persisting late in fall and turning 
slightly yellow ; fruit very decided in character, ripening very late, 
nearly always yellowish when mature, and covered with heavy down ; 
in the Indian type the fruit is striped with red ; a heavy bearer and 
sure cropper in its proper isotherm- Seems to have come from the In- 
dian type brought over from Spain by the Spanish missionaries and 
distributed among the Indians of the extreme Southern states. Per- 
haps it is owing to successive seedlings in raore favorable climate that 
the type is now varying. All over the Southern states one hears the 
expression that seedlings are surer bearers than budded trees, and 
there seems to be some truth in this belief, because by growing seed- 
lings continuously varieties may adapt themselves to climate. This 
type is adapted to isothermal lines north of where the South China 
race flourishes. 

IV. North China Race The original Chinese Cling, which is a 

drawf tree near the coast, is the parent of thid race. It is not at all 
adapted to regions along the gulf. Two or three hundred miles farther 
north it and its seedlings do well. It is the parent of the largest 
peaches in the United States ; blooms later than the Persian, and the 
flowers are nearly always large; foliage large and flat, turning to- 
ward autumn in the Southern states to a peculiar pea-green, and this 
type among others in an orchard can be detected with ease by this 
means alone. The color of the foliage foreshows the color of fruit, as 
none of the seedlings, as a rule, are highly colored. The parent came 
from China, and it is adapted to zones farther north than those suited 
to the Spanish. 

V. Persian Race Tree medium size to large ; limbs short and 

thick, with long naked places ; bark usually rich purplish red on young 
wood; flowers large or small in different varieties; foliage crimpled 
and conduplicate, with purplish tinge before falling, which happens 
early. This race requires a long period of rest, which indicates that it 
has had a more northern origin than any other, supposed to have been 
Persian. The seedlings now form the bulk of northern peach or- 
chards. Fruit usually the most highly colored and of the finest flavor. 
In this race we sometimes find a variety with yellow flesh, but the 
flavor is not as good as the others. It is almost useless to plant this 
race in the southern part of the Gulf states. 

There are some ornamental varieties, which will not be mentioned 
here. — R. H. Price, Experiment Station, College Station, Tex. 



368 STATE HOETICULTDRAL SOCIETY. 



THE PLANTING OF PEACH TEEES. 

Jast now I see going the rounds of the papers that "all peach 
trees should be cut back to a switch 18 to 36 inches." This is the in- 
struction given by nurserymen 40 years ago. Will nurserymen never 
learn anything ? Cut back to a switch, indeed ! If you go to these same 
nurserymen, they will ask you more than double for their larger trees, 
ihen tell you to cut them back to a swilch. Bah ! What nonsense. 
When you buy peach trees for planting, purchase small sized trees. 
Why? Because you get a multitude of fiber roots, as well as perfect 
tops, that do not require cutting back. I believe a small peach tree, 
say two or three feet, is preferable to a larger one. They cost only 
about one-half as much ; the limbs are small and are seldom broken,, 
and the roots are in good shape. You do not have to lo^e one year in 
shaping your tree. I have trees planted two years of stock from two 
to three feet with the leader cut back after the first year, that are fully 
eight feet high and as much throagh the limbs. They had cultivation 
and soil, I admit, but then they were of the class of trees mentioned. 

Give me the plant ; I will make the tree P. Holsinger, in Western 

Fruit Grower. 



THINNING OF PEACHES. 

David Baird read a paper on "Thinning of Peaches," giving some 
of his experience. The peach crop the past year in this State set very 
thickly, and three-fourths of the crop taken to market did not pay 
expenses ; had they been thinned fully one-halt, the rest would have 
been a paying crop. He thinned soon after the June drop began, leav- 
ing no two peaches touching each other. The proper distance in thin- 
ning is to leave no two closer than six inches apart. This refers to all 
fruits as well as peaches. 

One member spoke of thinning peaches in his orchard, thinning 
one large tree twice, taking oS 1,950 the first time and 450 the second 
time. He afterwards gathered 15 baskets of fine peaches from the tree, 
and said he is fully convinced that if he had not thinned he would not 
have had three pints of perfect fruit, besides greatly injuring the tree. 
Mr. Taylor recommended heading back the young wood of the tree 
fully one-third or one-half, instead of so much thinning ; this will cost 
much less and prove much more satisfactory. This can be done after 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 369 

danger of freezing is past ; the best time is after the bloom has ap- 
peared. 

Mr. Baird said : A quarter crop is better than a fall one, as there 
is more net profit for the grower, so you should thin hard ; besides .you 
obviate the danger of spoiling your trees. 

Prof. B. D. Halsted spoke on the forcing or prematnring of peaches. 
This is a disease of the tree ; in some cases, a single limb will force or 
ripen its fruit prematurely, while the rest of the tree will be in a normal 
condition. The professor thinks this condition is largely caused by 
the borer, as those which were forcing the most were affected by the 
borer to a great degree. In some cases, fruit which should ripen in 
October, was being picked in a ripened condition with the early 
varieties. 

The unusually wet weather early in the season, followed with 
extreme heat, is thought by many growers to be the cause of the forc- 
ing the past summer, while in other cases the yellows of the peach trees 
seems to have much to do with the prematuring of the fruit. For this 
disease there seems to be no absolute cure yet discovered, so far as 
we now know. To cut out and destroy all trees as soon as discovered, 
destroying everything, root and branch, is the best remedy, by prevent- 
ing its spread. 

Mr. Johnson said : There is more danger from peach pits taken 
from trees affected with yellows being planted and these young trees, 
being set in poor land, developing the disease, than in any other way. 
Growers and nurserymen should be very careful where they get their 
pits, from which they grow their young trees. 

How early should peach orchards be plowed in spring! 

Mr. Black — Just as early as the soil is in good condition. 

Some of the new fruits mentioned by members of the society were 
the Triumph peach, Greensboro and Champion, the latter one of the 
best of later introductions. Kansas raspberry, a black variety, the 
Miller raspberry, a red variety, a very good shipper, in color and 
solidity far ahead of the Cuthbert ; Early Queen blackberry ripens 
earlier than Early Harvest, a very promising sort; Lovettand Tennessee 
Prolific strawberries, both good varieties, also the Wm. Bell, a good 
family berry, very sweet and of good quality and flavor. — New Jersey 
Horticultural Society, from Country Gentleman. 



-24 



370 STATE HdRTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



INCREASE OF INSECT ENEMIES. 

It needs little argument to prove that the enemies of cultivated 
plants are steadily increasing, and I think it can be easily shown that 
they will contiaue to increase so long as the conditions, for which we 
are in large part responsible, remain as they are at present. I do not 
by any means regard this as a calamity. On the contrary, I look upon 
the fact that our insect and fungous foes are increasing as direct proof 
that we are progressing, for, as Professor Bailey has said: " Our ene- 
mies increase because cultivation induces change of habits in wild 
organisms; because it presents an ever-increasing variety of food, or 
host plants; because the food supply is large and in more or less con- 
tinuous area ; and finally, because the natural equilibrium, or tension, 
is destroyed." It follows, therefore, that the more we put forth our 
energies to improve our native plants or to change their habits; the 
more we endeavor to increase the variety and number of our culti- 
vated vines, trees and shrubs; the more we extend our orchards, our 
vineyards and our fields, just so much more do we disturb the equilib- 
rium in nature, and just so much more must we expect to burden our- 
selves with the work of maintaining this unstable condition by more 
or less artificial means. Where an insect or fungus had one chance a 
hundred years ago to wax strong and spread, it has now a thousand 
chances, for unbroken orchards and vineyards and millions of nursery 
trees cover the country where then only wild plants grew. It is but 
natural, then, that man, seeing the onward march of his enemies, 
should look about him and wonder how it will all end, and how he, as 
an individual, is to obtain relief. In many cases he has found a way of 
doing this by adopting certain more or less empirical methods. Again, 
with a fuller appreciation of the fundamental principles underlying 
plant growth, he has learned, partly by intuition, to keep his plants in 
health, and when he has reached this stage he stands far in advance of 
his neighbor who waits until his plants are diseased and then begins to 
look about for a spraying apparatus. — B. T. Galloway in Farmers' Re- 
view. 



THE SAN JOSE SCALE AND ITS PARASITE. 

The so-called San Jose scale f Asipidiotus perniciosusj which is 
now carrying terror to the fruit-growers of the East, owes its introduc- 
tion in this country to a pioneer of California and a former resident of 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 371 

Ohili. After acquiring wealth, he established handsome grounds in 
Santa Olara county, which is stocked with various imported plants, 
and it is supposed that this scale was imported from Chili by him in 
the early seventies, for soon after this it was noticed, and spread with 
great rapidity over the greater part of California. The fact that it ap- 
peared soon after the importation of South American plants and was 
reported from Chili at the same time, leads to the belief that it is native 
of that country, although some entomologists believe it to be of Japanese 
origin, from the fact that nearly related species are found thSre. 

For awhile it was indeed a terrible pest to the fruit-growers of 
Oalifornia, and no etBcient means were found to check its spread. 
Spraying with various substances and at different seasons was resorted 
to, but nothing man could do could stop its spread or stay its ravages. 
Nature, however, came to the rescue and a small internal parasite 
fAphelinus fuscipennisj was discovered working on the pest. This 
parasite has increased in California more rapidly than the pernicious 
scale, and the latter is now very generally held in check. There is no 
hope that it will ever be exterminated, but during the past seven years 
the scale has decreased so rapidly that it is no longer regarded as a 
serious pest in the orchards of California. We believe that the Aphe- 
linus fuscipennis is found in many parts of thd Eastern and Southern 
states, as it works on other scales than the pernicious, and it is proba- 
ble, as it is to be hoped, that it will become established in sections 
atilicted with this pest. — Prairie Farmer. 



A SCALE DISEASE. 

It is now well known that some of the most tiny insects are sub- 
ject to diseases, and that these are often employed in the destruction 
of insects which are injurious. The artificial dissemination of the 
<jhinch-bug disease has been a notable example of this. It now ap- 
pears that there is a fungus which attacks the San Jose scale. This 
particular fungus is said to have a wide distribution, but has only re- 
cently been recognized as a deadly enemy of the pernicious scale. To 
produce the disease among the scales the fungus is transferred to the 
affected trees where it multiplies rapidly. 

Prof. Rolfs of the Florida Experiment Station reports that large 
quantities of the fungus may be produced in the laboratory in a short 
time and at slight expense, its wide distribution rendering always 
available a start for propagating. It can then be applied by the 
grower, and as far as tested has been more eflFective than many spray- 



372 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. ■* 

ings. If this remedy fulfills the expectations concerning it, the dread 
scale will be more readily overcome. It is predicted, however, that 
the disease will be less effective in dry than in moist climates. — Agri- 
cultural Epitomist. 



Dr. Cotton said that Mr. 0. D. Elliott had sprayed most of his or- 
charfl with a one-fourth of an ounce of chrystal carbolic acid in 50 gal- 
lons of water for bitter rot with good success. The spray was applied 
in July or August, and parts of the orchard not sprayed suffered with 
bitter rot, while the part treated was comparatively free from the dis- 
ease. If this remedy continues to prevent the bitter rot it will be 
worth thousands of dollars to the apple orchards of Bencon county. — 
Report from Benton County, Ark., Horticultural Society, December 
1897. 



STRAWBERRY RUST. 

This is a fungous disease which injures some varieties more seri- 
ously than others. Most of the larger strawberry growers in Vermont 
avoid serious difficulty from rust by frequent resetting of their beds,, 
taking only two crops of fruit, then plowing up. Where they keep 
them longer and the rust begins to trouble, the best preventive is 
spraying with Bordeaux mixture — the same remedy as used for potato 
blight. Spray at least three times, once as soon as convenient after the 
berries are harvested, again later in the summer as the new plants are 
well developed, and again the following spring before fruit is set. If 
disease is very bad I should advise two sprayings in addition to the 
above, one more in the fall and one earlier in the spring, making five 
altogether. In addition, it is a good practice to mow the bed after 
picking, and rake off and burn the old leaves, which destroys many of 
the rust spores. — L. R. Jones, Vermont Experiment Station. 



BORERS. 

In writing to The American Agriculturist on " Winter Work 
Against Insects," Professor J. B. Smith calls attention to the fact that 
many borers pass the winter as larvfe either in • dead or dying twigs 
that remain on the trees or have fallen to the ground. All dead and 
dying wood should, therefore, be removed from orchards in the win- 
ter. Almost every dead or dying branch contains borers in some 
stage, and these should find their way to the brush-heap or into the 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 373 

®tove before spring. If they are put on the brush-heap they should 
by no means be allowed to lie till the following summer, but ought to 
be burned before the first of April. Careful inspection at this season 
may show on apple trees which have been infested with plant lice 
many very small, shining, black, oval eggs close to the buds near the 
tips of the twigs. It is hard to kill these eggs, but if there is any 
trimming to be done these twigs may be cut off and burned before 
spring, and this will lessen the insects for next year. The egg belts 
of the tent caterpillar are more readily seen, and it pays certainly to 
<;ut them from medium-sized trees. Earning over infested land in 
winter will destroy the eggs of many grasshoppers and other insects 
■which lay their eggs in the leafy tissue or on the stems of grass or 
weeds. Some insects which infest shade-trees, like the bagworm 
^nd the vaporer moth, hibernate in the egg state. The bagworm can 
be easily cut off of the tree, especially the Arbor Vitte, which is very 
subject to their injuries, while in cities and towns the egg masses 
of the vaporer moth are found on fences, tree-boxes and any other 
place where a little shelter is afforded, and since each mass contains 
more than a hundred eggs, every one gathered and burned helj^ to 
ilimit the injury from caterpillars the next year. — Garden and Forest. 



BOILING WATER FOR YELLOWS. 

An Early Crawford peach tree in the western part of Rochester, 
!Sr. Y., says the Democrat and Chronicle, has borne three bushels of 
■fine fruit. Two years ago the tree was smitten with the "yellows," and 
the owner thought it was doomed, but following the advice of a friend 
who had tried the remedy, he poured boiling water on the trunk and 
Tjranches and threw it on the upper limbs, repeating the operation four 
or five times at intervals of five or six days. New growth soon started, 
and ^the tree was shortly covered with green and healthy foliage. — 
^Country Gentleman. 



EFFECTIVE PEACH SPRAYING. 

Fiom observation of the past few years, Director A. T. Neale, of 
the Delaware Agricultural Experiment Station, recommends the fol- 
lowing plan in the treatment of peach orchards. 1. Spraying heavily 
with Bordeaux mixture just before the blossoms open. 2. When the 
fruit has set, spray again, to which add Paris green at the rate of 3 oz. 
to the bbl. 3, When the fruit begins to color, spray with the copper 
iicetate solution, 8 oz. to the bbl. 4. Repeat this in from one to two 



374 STATE HOIITICULTURA.L SOCIETY. 

weeks if the weather is damp and conditions favorable for rot. Last 
year Hale's and Early Rivers peach trees were sprayed for the second 
season with the the Bordeaux mixture. The results show, first, that 
spraying will increase the amount of sound fruit from three to four 
fold ; second, that while a year ago spraying after the fruit reached 
the size of large peas did not diminish the amount of rot, such was 
not the case last year, owing to the rainy season at the period of ripen- 
ing, trees sprayed at the period of coloring showing less rot than those 
not sprayed at this time ; third, that trees sprayed ten days or two 
weeks after the beginning of coloring did not effect additional diminu- 
tion of the rot; fourth, that a rational and effective plan for treating 
peach orchards for rot would be to spray three times — just before 
blossoming, after the bloom has entirely dropped and at the beginning 
of coloring. — Orange Judd Farmer. 



PEACHES WITH "WILTED BLACK SIDES." 

p. L. B. , Dresden, 0.— Our Salway peach orchard, six years old, has borne two crops. 
I think the ground Is too rich, as the peaches grow large, but are not perfect; they have 
wilted black sides, do not color well, and are Inclined to rot badly. The trees have made 
a strong growth, and are large. The land, before being planted to peaches, was used for 
sheep pasture, and being the highest ground in the field, was where they lay at night, 
which made it rich. It is rather new ground, has not been farmed very much, but has 
been cleared long enough for the stumps to be all gone. It is damp, but no water ever 
stands on It. Since being planted to peaches, it has raised two crops of corn, and since 
that, has been in grass and weeds for its second crop last summer. 

Answer — It may be that the soil is too rich in nitrogen for the best 
development of the fruit of the peach, but, if so, it is from too much 
sheep manure. But the chief trouble, probably, lies in the fungous 
diseases which have preyed on the fruit. The " wilted black sides " 
are, in all probability, the result of a disease which is often called 
" peach spot," and comes from numerous colonies of a microscopical 
fungus, each. being a spot much like a fly-speck, and together forming 
a dry, scabby appearance on the surface of the peach, and a stunted 
growth of that part of the fruit. Sometimes exceedingly hot spells and 
protracted growth cause a lack of normal development on the side 
next the sun. These troubles were quite common in many parts of the 
country the past season. " Peach rot" is the result of another fungus 
which finds the most favorable development in warm, wet weather. 
The remedy for these diseases is the burning of the remnants of 
diseased fruit left in the orchard at once, and repeated spraying with 
fungicides, in accordance with specific printed directions, which should 
be procured without delay from the State Experiment Station of Ohio 
(at Wooster), or, in case of trouble in other states, of the State Ex- 
periment Stations H. E. Van Deman, in Rural New Yorker. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPfiKS. 375 



NOTES ON CHERRIES. 

About ten years ago several varieties of cherries, chiefly Earopean 
importations, were received from Professor J. L. Budd, of Ames, Iowa, 
and phinted on the experimental groands here. Most of the trees have 
fruited for a number of years, but very little has been published con- 
cerning their behavior in this climate. The soil on which they were 
grown is a heavy sandy loam underlaid with gravel. 

As would naturally be supposed, the trees are all perfectly hardy, 
and have made a good growth. Of nineteen varieties which fruited 
during the past season only a few possess any superiority to our older 
cultivated varieties, which would warrant a more extended trial. The 
greater portion of them are in no way better than the old Early Rich- 
mond. The following notes were taken during the fruiting season, and 
are given here for the benefit of those who may wish to plant some of 
these varieties. 

Brusseler Braune makes a larger tree than Early Richmond, and 
has shown itself to be a heavy bearer. The fruit is large and nearly 
black when fully ripe; stem two inches long; flesh firm, juicy and of 
fine quality; juice highly colored. It ripens about June l!5th in this 
latitude, and is one of the most promising varieties in the list. Mont- 
morency probably stands next, with its large, bright red, showy fruit. 
In productiveness it equals the Early Richmond, bat ripens ten days 
to two weeks later. 

Lutorka is a large, bright red cherry with a deep suture, with firm 
flesh and of good quaility, ripening about June lOih. This variety has 
received favorable comments from growers in the east as promising. 
So far, with us, it has been a very shy bearer; otherwise it would be 
recommended for general planting. Griotte du Nord is a good tree, 
with fine foliage. The fruit is large, almost black when fully ripe ; 
stem two inches in length. It resembles the Brusseler Braune in gen- 
eral appearance, but ripens a little earlier. 

Dye House has been spoken of very highly in some localities, but 
with- us it is only medium ; no better than many others. French Mo- 
rello is a large, dark red cherry of good quality and quite productive, 
ripening about June 25th. Montmorency Extraordinary is of medium 
size, bright red, good quality, short-stemmed, and ripening June 10th. 
Fruehe Morello is a large, bright red fruit, of fine quality, short- 
stemmed, quite productive, and ripening June 8th. Spaete Morello is 
a good bearer ; fruit medium in size, dark in color when fully ripe ; the 



376 STATE HORTICDLTURAL SOCIETY. 

skin is tough, making it a good shipping variety; ripens June 25th. 
Wragg makes a low-spreading tree, with fruit of medium size, dark 
red, aad of very good quality when fully ripe; ripens June 25th. 
Weirs No. 2, inferior and not recommended for this locality. Bessara- 
bian would be a fine variety if it were more productive, but thus far it 
has produced very sparingly ; the fruit is large, dark red and of good 
quality, and ripens about June 20lh. Cerise de Ostheim is a round- 
topped tree, the branches somewhat pendulous in growth ; it seems to 
be one of the best varieties of its class that we have fruited ; the fruit 
is medium in size, of a dark color when fully ripe ; flesh, firm and ten- 
der, juicy and rich, and the tree yields [a heavy crop every year. 
Frauendorfer is a strong-growing tree, with large dark red fruit, tender 
and juicy ; as yet it has not been prolific enough to warrant us in recom- 
mending it for general cultivation. Carnation is a sweet cherry of 
great promise; the fruit is very large, bright red, rich and meaty; it 
ripens about June 8th, and is a most excellent variety,for family use. — 
J. Tro3p, Lifayette, Ind., in Garden and Forest. 



CHERRY TREES. 

Most farmers would find it better and cheaper to purchase cherry 
trees of some reputable nurseryman than to attempt to grow the 
stocks and bud or graft them. As this is contrary to the advice given 
for other trees, I will give my reason for it. The nurserymen have lit- 
tle or no difficulty in procuring seed from seedling trees which have 
not been grafted, such as will make the best stocks, or from those in 
which the buds did not live, and it requires more skill, or at least more 
care, to successfully bud the cherry than the peach or plum, owing to 
the liability of the bark to peel off and curl away from the bud or scion. 

There are some kinds which will grow true to the parent stock 
from the seed, with only occasional sports, and upon them and not on 
budded trees do the growers depend for their seeds. 

The cherry will grow like the plums upon almost any soil unless 
very wet, but likes best a deep, rich loam. The different varieties 
vary somewhat in this, as they do in their habits of growth. Some 
sorts upon strong and rather moist soil will spread their limbs until 
they would touch at 50 feet apart, while others grow more upright and 
would not touch at 15 feet apart. Where land is plenty we should 
give abundant room, preferring to have as much of a low, wide-spread- 
ing tree as we could get, while close planting would have a tendency 
to make upright growth. In a village lot I have seen them growing 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 377 

■well at a rod apart, and I have seen a 50-year-old tree standing alone 
covering a space more than 60 feet across and loaded with bushels of 
cherries. 

Yet the tree should not be heavily manured while young, as most 
of our varieties are rank growing, and, therefore, rather apt to winter 
kill at the ends of the branches, and even sometimes to be injured by 
extreme hot weather after a rapid growth in the spring. Heavy ma- 
nuring may also result in overbearing, sacrificing quality to quantity of 
fruit, more setting on the branches than can grow to good size. A 
steady and regular growth is better than a rapid one. 

It is well, at least while the tree is young, to cut off the ends of 
the limbs each fall after the leaves drop, taking nearly one third of the 
season's growth, as it bears only in wood two years old or more. This 
and cutting out dead branches is all the pruning the cherry tree needs. 

Like other stone fruits it requires a fertilizer or manure rich in 
potash, but it will bear more nitrogen also after the tree has attained a 
^ood growth. 

Although the tree is sometimes troubled by caterpillars and can- 
ker worms, they will not often trouble the cherry if they can find ap- 
ple trees to feed upon, and they can be kept away by spraying with 
some of the arsenical poisons when they are found upon the tree. The 
fungous disease, which sometimes causes the frait to rot upon the tree 
before it ripens, is a worse enemy than any insect. To guard against 
this, spray with the solution of sulphate of copper in the early spring 
before the buds start, using it very strong. After the blossoms have 
fallen, spray again with same, but using a weaker solution, not more 
than two ounces of sulphate of copper in a hundred gallons of water ; 
repeat about once in two weeks until the fruit begin to ripen. If so 
much spraying is troublesome, it is also vexatious to fail to find any 
cherries fit to eat or to cook after watching a good crop grow. Spray- 
ing seems to be almost a necessity now, if one would have good fruit 
of any kind, and if others spray, there will be no market for any but 
good fruit. 

The curculio sometimes attacks the cherry, and if abundant it may 
be necessary to either add an arsenical compound to the spraying mix- 
ture after the fruit has set, or fight them by jarring off and burning. 
There is also a slug which attacks the leaf in some sections that may 
need to be destroyed by spraying. 

As regards varieties, one may take his choice of those which are 
so acid as to be almost unsuitable for eating excepting when cooked 
and well sweetened; those that are so so sweet as to have almost a 
sickish taste to some, or a milder flavored fruit tnat a few like, but 



378 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

which is to me about as insipid as a piece of chalk. Catalogues and 
nurserymen will give full information in regard to them if one wishes 
to buy trees. If budding or grafting for one's own use, scions can be 
taken from such varieties as have been tried and proved good. 

The beautiful form and the flowers of the cherry make it a desira- 
ble ornamental tree near the house, and I would advise every farmer 
to have a few. Have enough to furnish frnit for family use and a sur- 
plus for the birds. They are particularly fond of all but the very sour 
varieties, and will be apt to rob a single tree, so that its owner can get 
but little well-ripened fruit from it. 

But the service they do in destroying insects in the orchard and 
garden is well worth the trouble of setting a few fruit trees for them. 

The cherry tree usually does better in a northern exposure than 
upon the south side of a hill or building. — A.mes, in American Cultiva- 
tor. 



HOW TO GROW CHERRIES. 

Cherries thrive in a variety of soils, but attain their highest de- 
velopment in one that is light and loamy. It must retain considerable 
moisture, but never be sour. If the land is too wet it must be drained, 
and on light, dry knolls, otherwise favorable to cherry culture, the 
moisture-holding capacity of the soil may be increased by the addition 
of vegetable matter and judicious surface cultivation. The turning^ 
under of crimson clover or a crop of similar character is highly bene-^ 
ficial. 

The best results are obtained from orchards situated on a western 
or northwestern slope, as the blooming period is retarded in spring and 
the danger of frosts greatly lessened. A depression is not desirable, 
as frost is liable to occur there when it would not on higher ground. 
Where the country is naturally level, a slight elevation is preferable, 
since it assures air drainage and good circulation. The sour varieties 
of cherries seem to thrive better on lower levels than the sweet kinds. 

The distance apart for planting trees will depend almost wholly 
upon the manner of growth. Some trees may attain a heighth of 40 
to 50 feet and be wide-spreading. These should stand not less than 30 
feet apart. In western New York the sour varieties with small heads 
are set 12x12 or 18x18. For instance, the Montmorency and Early 
Richmond are usually planted 18x18, while the more bushy and com- 
pact Morellos are planted 16x16. 

The highest success in cherry-growing cannot be attained without 
thorough cultivation during the early life of the orchard, and also later 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 379 

while fruit is being matnred. There is no objection to growing small 
fruits or some other crop requiring frequent cultivation between the 
rows of cherry trees for a few years, provided the land is good and 
contains enough plant food to keep the trees in vigorous condition. 

The sweet cherry is a coarse feeder and will thrive on less applied 
ferlilizer than the other kinds. ( G. Harold Powell, Bulletin 35, Dela- 
ware Experiment Station.) When the land is too rich, or too much 
fertilizer is added, the energy of the tree is apt to be devoted too 
largely to wood growth. An abundance of moisture is essential for 
cherry trees during the bearing season, especially just before and dur- 
ing the ripening process, consequently it is advisable with a bearing 
orchard to plow early in spring and follow with light cultivations every 
ten days, or whenever the rain becomes scarce. On the first or mid- 
dle of July the condition of the soil can be greatly improved in its 
water-holding capacity by turning under annual crops of crimson clover 
or some other nitrogenous cover crop. In order to secure this crop, 
sow at the last cultivation 10 or 12 pounds of crimson clover seed per 
acre. It is very essential to retain the moisture in the soil in the 
spring by early plowing and by quite frequent culture. If the trees 
make too vigorous a growth, seed down one year to rye or buckwheat. 

The most profitable sour cherries are the Montmorency and Early 
Richmond, and these varieties can be grown in nearly all the orchard 
fruit regions of the United States. In the eastern states the following 
sweet varieties have been grown with more or less success: Black 
Tartarian, Robert's Red Heart, Napoleon, Windsor and Dikeman. For 
this same region the following may be added for family use: Black 
Eagle, Mezel, Gov. Wood, Coe's Transparent, Knight's Early Black, 
Yellow Spanish and Louis Philippe. — Orange Judd Farmer. 



THE CARE OF PLUM ORCHARDS. 

Any good corn soil will do for a plum orchard in Iowa. Perhaps 
the very best location is a gentle northern slope. Do not worry about 
the soil being too rich, and before planting your trees have it plowed 
deeply and harrow it very smooth. Set your trees in rows running 
north and south, 16 to 20 feet apart between the rows, and 10 to 12 
feet between the trees in the rows. Be careful to select different va- 
rieties that bloom about the same time and mix them. This will give 
more perfect fertilization and abundant annual crops. Plant only 
varieties of the very largest and richest color, especially if you are 
planting for maiket, for size and color will sell a fruit better thau 
quality, although it is desirable if we can combine all these points in 



380 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

a commercial orchard fruit. For this climate our improved natives 
are the most satisfactory and profitable to plant. They never winter 
kill, are almost free from decease and bring us paying annual crops. 
We now have over 200 varieties of these improved natives to make 
our selections from, and if intelligently made, we can pick plums over 
three months in each fruiting season. I know of no tree fruit in this 
State that yields so abundantly or is so profitable as these fine native 
plums. I do but little trimming on my trees, but we cannot give them 
too much cultivation, and during fruiting give them plenty of well- 
rotted manure; by thorough cultivation and plenty of manure we can 
increase the size and quality to a wonderful extent. Nearly all our 
best native plums overbear, hence the fruit should be well thinned out 
while yet small. If this is well attended to the balance of the fruit 
will mature large, fine specimens, and after being carefully hand-picked 
and put in neat baskets, avoiding more than one variety in a basket, 
we shall have little trouble in selling them in any market at remunera- 
tive prices. In making our selections of varieties we should select so 
we may have fruit during the entire fruiting season. The very earliest 
are Milton, Wild Goose and Whitaker. The best for medium seasons 
are Wyant, Ohas. Downing, Hawkeye, Stoddard, Hammer, De Soto, 
Gaylord, Wolf, Beauty and American Eagle. Miner, Champion, Golden 
Beauty and Fairchild are the most desirable for a late market. If our 
horticulturists had planted these splendid natives in place of foreign 
trash the past 20 years plum orcharding in Iowa today would be out 
of the experimental stage, and commercial orchards would be as plen- 
tiful and profitable as they are in more favorable climes. That Iowa 
has produced so many valuable, large native plums in rapid succession 
the past 10 years seems a little strange, but if we trace effects back to 
cause we shall discover such results are not from any haphazard 
chance, but from a deep scientific cause. Our soil and climate has 
doubtless much to do in producing this superior fruit, but I feel confi- 
dent that in the long selection and culture by prehistoric man as well 
as our present efforts along this line of higher development, lies the 
true cause. However, I will leave this for another paper. — A. B Den- 
nis, Iowa, in Prairie Farmer. 



SEEDLING PLUMS. 

Some of the Prairie Farmer readers have requested our method of 
raising seedlings of plums. There are two objects in raising seedlings : 
One is to get stock upon which to graft or bud valuable varieties; the 
other is to get valuable new sorts, as new varieties can only be origi- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 381 

nated by planting pits. The preparation of the pits and their care till 
planting Hme is very important. If seedlings are desired for stock in 
budding or grafting, the Miner is perhaps the best that can be used, 
as this variety seems to give us the most uniform and thrifty seedling. 
This uniformity, thriftiness and extreme hardiness makes the Miner the 
ideal stock for nursery use. Gather the pits during the fruiting season 
by squeezing them from perfect fruit, thoroughly cleansing all the meat 
from them, and pack them away in clean, moist sand till fall. When it 
begins to slightly freeze, or a short time previous to freezing, plant 
them on ground that has been plowed and pulverized. If extensive 
planting is to be done, use the two-horse corn planter to drill in the 
pits. If only a few seeds are to be planted, make a little furrow with 
the garden cultivator, and drill the seed by hand. This completes the 
work till spring. Then we begin to fight the weeds as soon as possible 
by giving the ground a thorough surface cultivation. The seeds should 
be deep enough in the ground to admit of this without endangering or 
breaking off any of the sprouts that may be starting; if the seeds are 
drilled in three inches this can be done. After the plants are suffi- 
ciently large to mark the rows, give good cultivation at intervals till 
budding time, which usually can be commenced the latter part of July 
and continued as long as the bark lifts freely. If the young trees are 
intended to be used in grafting, let them stand until digging time in 
the fall ; then dig and pack away in a cool cellar till wanted. If seed- 
tings are desired for seedling fruit and new varieties, the same care 
must be used as here given for stock, but still more care must be used 
in selecting only the very largest and finest specimens of fruit to secure 
pits from, and not plant so thickly in the rows. It is also desirable to 
label the varieties of pits so you can have sure knowledge of parentage 
on one side at least ; of course, if natural cross-fertilization has taken 
place, the new fruit may be entirely different from that out of which 
the pits were taken. — Prairie Farmer. 



GROWING PLUMS SAID TO BE IN ITS INFANCY. 

The New York Experiment Station has issued a bulletin on the 
plam and its culture, which is very timely and interesting. This bulle- 
tin says the prum is not well understood in the United States except 
in Western New York and the. Pacific coast. After classifying the 
varieties the bulletin treats of only the Domestica or European plums, 
embracing Green Gages, Lombard, Bradshaw, Yellow Egg, Damsons, 
etc. They are treate(^ under four classes — Damsons, Green Gages, 
Large Yellow and Large Red, or purple plums. 



332 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

These are lees hardy than any other type except 'the Japanese, 
but they are so superior in size and quality that they will continue to 
be more largely grown in New York than any others, till a new collec- 
tion of hybrids is raised up to surpass them. 

As a market fruit, the plum is of secondary importance, classing 
after apples, pears and peaches, and even after cherries and berries. 
'While it thrives on a variety of soils, it prefers a clay loam. Asa 
stock, the Myrobalan is most largely used in the Northern states. In 
the South, the Peach and the Mariana are preferred as stocks upon 
which to bud plums. A few such varieties as Eeine Claude, German 
Prune and Copper grow so crooked that it is best to graft them into 
the tops of some straighter growing kind rather than to bud them. 

Plant plums when two years old from the bud, in north and south 
rows, 12 feet apart, putting no two trees of the same variety next to 
each other in the row. 

The only pruning necessary is to keep the top in shape, cut out 
dead branches and keep down black knot. Give good tillage, spray 
for black knot, also using the knife, and both jar and spray for curcu- 
lio. For fruit rot, both thin and spray. 

Fully half of this bulletin is devoted to a description of varieties 
of the European type of plums, richly illustrated by cuts of the fruits, 
stones, etc. Those recommended are Field, Lombard, Bradshaw, Coe's 
Golden Drop, Hudson River, Purple Egg, Italian Prune, Ecu pire. Grand 
Duke, Arch Duke, Monarch, Eeine Claude, Copper, French Damson 
and Farleigh. Of the Japanese, Red June, Abundance, Burbank and 
Chase are recommended, Red June promising to be the best of early 
plums for New York, — Western Fruit Grower. 



WILD GOOSE PLUM. 

Are there any richer or better plums than the Wild Goose, suited to this climate and 
reliable bearers? Would It do to cut ofif the top of a M^Ud Goose tree, let it sprout, and 
then bud In August with some other variety? If so, where could buds be obtained? 

R. B. Robinson, Barton Co., Mo. 

Reply by Prof. J. C. Whitten, Horticulturist of Missouri Agricul- 
tural Station: The Wild Goose is one of the best of our American 
plums. It is well, however, to plant others in order to have early and 
late plums. Among the Japanese sortg Abundance and Burbank are 
about the best for Missouri. Among the Europeans, Lombard is good- 
Other good plums are Miner, De Soto, Wayland, Shropshire, Damson 
and Golden Beauty. The above list will furnish a succession of differ- 
ent kinds of plums from July to October. The main branches of old 



MISOELLA.NBOUS PAPERS. 383 

plam trees may be cut back, and the sprouts budded with any variety 
when the bark will separate from the wood. I have had better suc- 
cess in top-grafting just before growth begins in spring. Plum trees 
come into bearing so early that it is generally best to plant young trees 
of the varieties desired. Young trees, scions or buds, may be ob- 
tained from any of the nurserymen who advertise in the Rural World. 



Prof. L. H. Bailey, of Cornell University, is convinced that the 
Japanese plums have come to stay. He does not mean by this that 
they are destined to supplant the Domestica and native varieties, but 
that they may be expected to supplement those types with varieties 
that are adapted to particular purposes and conditions. As a class he 
pronounces them vigorous, hardy and productive in tree, with hand- 
some fruit, having a long season and long keeping quality — Live Stock 
Journal. 



COMMERCIAL PLUM ORCHARD. 

In planting a commercial plum orchard location, varieties and 
management must be well considered. While the plum is not so sen- 
sative to location as the peach, it will not bear the neglect which so 
frequently falls to the apple. A good elevation is desirable, but not 
absolutely essential to success, provided other conditions are favora- 
ble, such as a good soil and thorough drainage. There should be but 
few varieties in a commercial orchard, but those selected should com- 
bine size, quality and a fine appearance. As a rule, blue and purple 
plums sell best, as the yellow varieties are frequently placed on the 
market before they are ripe. 

A good general list will include the following: Of the dark kinds, 
Bradshaw, Duane Purple, German Prune, Lombard, Englebert, Quack- 
enboss; of the yellow sorts, Coe's Golden Drop, General Hand, Jef- 
ferson, Yellow Egg. There are many other excellent varieties, but the 
above is a good general list. Of the Japanese plums Abundance, Bur- 
bank, Bailey, Satsuma and Willard have been highly recommended. 

Thorough cultivation, early and frequent spraying and the jarring 
sheet for curculio are necessary to success. Before the leaves start 
go over the orchard and carefully cut 'out and burn all black knot. 
This is imperative. The trees should receive what pruning they re- 
quire before the buds start, and the first spraying should be given just 
as the buds are opening. Corn and potatoes may be planted in young 
orchards, but when the trees come into bearing they should re- 



384 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

ceive the fall use of the land. Never sow wheat or oats among trees, 
as they are sure to rob the orchard of more than they return the 
owner. — George L. Perry, Michigan, in Orange Jadd Farmer. 



THE WILD PERSIMMON. 

The wild persimmon is widely distributed over the western and 
southern states, but up to the present time has signally failed to attract 
and receive the attention it really deserves; but this neglect does not 
detract one iota from its healthfulness and usefulness. From present 
indications it is slowly gaining favor with horticulturists, and at some 
time in the near future will be a staple product of the orchard and of 
considerable importance in the markets. A few enterprising fruit- 
growers, Mr. Logan Martin among the number, have experimented by 
budding, and several years ago had 300 trees growing in his nursery. 

In his report to the Department of Agriculture at Washington 
City, he says, the trees bear annually and the fruit finds a good market 
in Chicago and Indianapolis, at from $1 to $2 per twelve pint case, 
shipped by express. To say the least this is very encouraging, and 
should be a sufficient incentive for further experimentation. There are 
several varieties and much difference in their size and time of ripening. 
One variety is seedless. The tree is very tenacious of life, and lives 
to a good old age. Wind-storms and the extremes of heat and cold 
have but little influence upon them. From the above facts it appears 
there is a wide field for experimenting. Millions upon millions of the 
trees have been ruthlessly destroyed without a single thought of their 
usefulness and utility. On a farm owned by one of my neighbors there 
was a beautiful grove of them, consisting of at least 1,000 trees, where 
his children, his fowls, his cattle and hogs resorted in fruit time and 
feasted, fattened and fared sumptuously every day, and now there is 
not one left. "Axman, spare that tree." — C. Glover, Ham's Prairie, Mo., 
in Journal of Agriculture. 



DWARF PEAR TREES. 

It was the general prevalence of pear blight, and also a natural 
desire to have pear trees come earlier into bearing, that made dwarf 
pear trees 40 or more years ago so generally popular. The dwarfing 
of the pear is accomplished by grafting it on the quince, not our ordi- 
nary orange or apple quince, but a French quince that bears worthless 
fruit but has a dwarfer habit of growth than does the common quince. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 385 

Under the old-fashioned plan of neglecting the pruning of pear trees, 
those on their own roots, or standards, as they are generally called, 
were very slow to come into bearing. Thus the old saying, " he who 
plants pears plants for his heirs" came into use. It was found, how- 
ever, that some kinds of pears, the Seckel, for example, came into 
bearing very early on their own roots. The kinds that do this mostly 
grow a great many short shoots, and as there is not plant food enough 
to extend all these shoots into branches, the shoots put out fruit buds 
and begin to bear. 

By the judicious pinching back of the strongest shoots during 
the growing season this bushy hf^bit of growth with consequent fruit- 
fulness may be produced in almost any variety. Different kinds must 
be pruned differently, however. On very rich soil, if it is cultivated 
highly, an excessive pruning will be needed. The Seckel probably 
needs pruning less than any other, but on very rich soil it will also 
spire up, as it is the habit of most pear trees to do. In fact, when the 
standard pear tree is made to bear early, it is done by pinching back 
the shoots in summer and making it, so far as possible, a dwarf tree. 
This pinching back is one of the secrets of maintaining productive- 
ness in dwarf trees. After a few years, however, this summer pinch- 
ing back weakens the quince roots and the pear tree outgrows them, 
and often breaks off where the pear and quince have been joined. To 
prevent this soil may be gradually drawn around the pear tree so as 
to encourage it to put out roots from the pear stock. Then it will 
grow the same as any other pear tree, but the bearing habit formed 
when the tree was a dwarf will be continued. 

There are a few kinds of pears that succeed better as dwarfs 
than as standards. The Duchess, Beurre de Anjou, Flemish Beauty, 
Keiffer and Louise Boone are most commonly grown as dwarfs. Bart- 
lett, Seckel and Clapp's Favorite will grow well either way, and come 
into bearing reasonably early as standards. As a dwarf, the Bartlett 
will begin to bear the third year after planting in this climate. In 
California, fruit is sometimes produced the second year, but its longer 
growing season, and possibly the pinching by drouth, accounts for 
this precocity in fruit bearing. 

As a rule, early fruit bearing is at the expense of long life. We 
very rarely now see very old pear trees. The excessive pinching 
back to which they are subjected causes the trees to overbear. When 
a pear tree comes slowly into bearing, which is when it has not been 
pruned much, it will live to great age, and be fruitful so long as sup- 
plied with the needed mineral fertilizers. — Ex. 
H— 25 



38(5 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



RIPENING OF PEARS. 

It is not at all uncommon to hear one person praising up a pear 
which another condemns. The cause of this does not always come 
from a difference of opinion as to what constitutes a good pear, but 
from want of knowledge on the part of one or the other about how to 
properly ripen the fruit. A pair left to ripen on a tree is rarely of as 
good a flavor as it would have been if gathered a week or ten days 
earlier and put away in a close closet. Pears of a dryish nature, such 
as the Osband's Summer, for example, while passably good for their 
season if ripened indoors, are almost worthless when permitted'to hang 
upon the tree too long. The same may be said of all kinds. Olapp's 
Favorite is very good when gathered early, and good for nothing when 
not so treated. In regard to the ^lace to keep the fruits after gather- 
ing, it depends on what time they are desired for use. A temperature 
of about 45 degrees will prolong the ripening considerably, while a 
much warmer one, say of 65 degrees, will bring them along quickly. 
The early winter sorts cannot be kept too long. There comes a time 
when a pear should ripen, and the fruit seems better for not being too 
much retarded. There are always some individual fruits of the same 
kind which show signs of ripening, and these should be the ones 
selected from time to time for placing in a warmer room. It is fre- 
quently said in a complaining way that such splendid pears as Olapp's 
Favorite and Bartlett will not keep. These complaining people forget 
that no one wants to keep early pears. In Pennsylvania Clapps ripen in 
mid-August, and Bartletts a month later. These are expected to be 
used ai once, as there are lots of other good kinds to follow. For that 
matter some of the fruit of these two, especially the Bartlett, can be 
gathered fully two or three weeks before it would ripen on the tree, 
prolonging the season over a period of four or five weeks in all. As 
an illustration, I gathered a number of Olapp's Favorites on August 
6th. These were fit to eat on the 9th, and from that time to September 
'1 the fruit of the tree was in continual use. The Bartlett is a sort 
which ripens slower, and it can readily be had for use for five weeks. 
Lawrence is a favorite early winter pear with us, and when gathered 
just as frost approaches and kept in a low temperature as suggested, 
it can be had until New Years. Easter Beurre is still later than this. 
— Joseph Meehan, Pennsylvania, in Prairie Farmer. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPEBS. 387 



QUINCES VS. PEACHES. 

The fact that the quiuce is not a fruit that can be readily eaten 
raw as it is plucked from the tree doubtless prevents it from being as 
extensively grown as it should be. Yet as a fruit for the market it is 
much more reliable than peaches, and in a series of years will give 
more profit. The quince will grow on a much greater variety of soil 
than will the peach. If it can be kept moist enough, so as not to 
freeze deeply, sandy soil will grow quince successfully. Yet a rather 
damp soil, on which the peach tree will be an utter failure, the quince 
tree will thrive better than it will on dry soil. The reason for this is 
that the quince root is very tender and runs near the surface. The 
quince wood above ground is so soft and full of sap it can often be 
propagated from cuttings. The root of the quince is still softer, and of 
such spongy character that it absorbs moisture freely and cracks badly 
when frozen. The advantage of wet ground is that it does not freeze 
deeply, and the roots covered by soil are kept warm by the slight ris- 
ing of sap which occurs even in very cold weather and do not freeze 
at all. In a sandy soil the frost penetrates below the roots, and there 
is nothing to keep them from freezing. 

Quince trees ought always to be mulched in winter. To prevent 
girdling of the trees by mice the bodies of the trees for a foot above 
the surface should have some kind of poisonous wash that will pre- 
vent the mice from eating the bark, or will kill them at their first nibble. 
Arsenic may be used, mixed with a little grease. Still better will be 
painting the trees with a wash containing carbolic acid. The mulch 
need not be placed nearer than one or two feet from the tree, as the 
injury to the roots is much more likely to occur to the new growth at 
a distance from the tree, the new wood being much more tender than 
that several years older. 

Owing to its late blossoming period the quince buds are very rarely 
killed by late spring frosts. It is usually as late as the first of June 
when quince trees are in bloom, and their pink and white blossoms 
make a sight only equalled by the golden yellow of the fruit in the fall. 
Yet between blooming and harvesting of the fruit, it has to encounter 
diseases that the old-time grower of quinces knew nothing of. Rot of 
the fruit and blighting of the twigs are troubles to which many neg- 
lected quince orchards have succumbed. But if the blighted twigs are 
promptly cut off and burned, and if the trees are sprayed with Bor. 
deaux mixture two or three times during the growing season, as good 



388 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

quinces can be grown as formerly. The quince fruit often needs thin- 
ning. Only when large and well ripened do quinces command high 
prices, and when thus grown we know of no large fruit that pays bet- 
ter. — American Cultivator. 



GROWING QUINCES. 

The cultivation of the quince is much neglected in Missouri and 
adjoining states. Neglected in two senses, in that but few of the trees 
being set, and in the few that are planted not receiving proper care. 
And yet the quince set in good, strong soil does not require much at- 
tention, not being very much subject to disease or the attacks of insects. 
Perhaps this is a reason why it gets so little attention, tor very often it 
is not the most deserving who are the best cared for, but those whose 
demands and needs are most frequently urged upon us. 

The quince is not likely to become popular as a fruit to be eaten 
raw, nor does it admit of being served in such an infinite variety of 
ways as the apple, yet it has a flavor and a fragrance peculiarly its own^ 
especially relished by invalids as well as children, and in some of its 
various forms of preserved fruit, jelly or jam, it can impart a relish to 
wholesome bread and butter that will tempt the most capricious appe- 
tite away from the indigestible pie and cake that too often are eaten 
because they are so seasoned and flavcrred as to taste well without the 
" sauce of hunger" that imparts zest'to the plainest food for the healthy 
laboring man. It was a wise man, as well as a poet, who bade us r 
" Let good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both." — Western 
Fruit Grower. 



Pythagoras, "the Father of Philosophy," -was a most strenuous, 
advocate of vegetarian practices. 

"He first the taste of flesh from tables drove. 
And argued well, If arguments could move; 
O mortals! from your fellows' blood abstain, 
Nor taint your bodies with a food profane; , 

While corn and pulse by nature are bestow 'd. 
And planted orchards bend their willing load; 
While labor 'd gardens wholesome herbs produce. 
And teeming vines afford their generous juice. 
Nor tardier fruits of cruder Hind or lost, 
But tamed with Are, or mellow'dby the frost; 
While kine to palls distended udders bring. 
And bees their honey I'edolent of spring; 
While earth not only can your needs supply. 
But lavish of her store, provides for luxury; 
A guiltless feast administers w-lth ease. 
And, without blood, Is prodigal to please. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 389 

Wild beasts their maws with their slain brethren All, 

And yet, not all, for some refuse to kill; 

Sheep, goats and oxen, and the nobler steed, 

On browz, and corn, the flowery meadows feed. 

Bears, tigers, wolves, the lion's angry brood. 

Whom heaven endued with principles of blood, 

He wisely sunder'd from the rest, to yell 

In forests, and In lonely caves to dwell, 

Where stronger beasts oppress the weak by night 

And all In prey, and purple feasts delight. 

********* 

"Xot so the golden age, who fed on fruit. 

Nor durst with bloody meals their mouths pollute. 

Then birds In airy space might safely move. 

And timorous hares on heaths securely rove; 

Nor needed llsh the guileful hooks to fear. 

For all was peaceful, and peace sincere. 

Whoever was the wretch (and curs'd be he) . 

That envied first our food's simplicity; 

Th' essay of bloody feasts on brutes began. 

And after forged the sword to murder man. ' ' 

—Fruit Trade Journal. 



IMPROVEMENT IN SMALL FRUITS NEEDED. 

Each year turns out some new things of importance, but there is 
a tendency to work on a few lines. Just now the strawberry among 
small fruits is getting too large a share of attention. Unless there is 
B> very marked freak — or cross with other fruit — there is little more 
room for improvement in this direction. We have a half dozen straw- 
berries that are all we need for size, quality and prolific bearing. It 
may be possible to increase the strength of foliage and roots. 

We are still looking for an ideal blackberry. The Kittatinny would 
pretty near fill the bill if it were hardy. Minnewaski and both Wilson 
and Erie are not able to stand hard winters. Agawam is too soft, but 
delicious. Snyder is too small. Aacient Briton not big enough. 
Wachusett much like Snyder. We need a berry as large as Kittatinny 
or the Lucretia dewberry, with canes growing erect like Snyder, in- 
stead of sprawling like Agawam and Wilson. 

Have we yet reached the ideal currant? I do not believe we 
have. White Grape, when grown on rich, strong ground, is by odds 
the best currant in existance. I see but little difference between Ver- 
saillaise and Fay. But none of them is as large as we may reasonably 
hope for. The ideal currant should stand six to ten feet high and be 
nearly twice the size of our best. In quality, can we ask for better 
than White Grape ? It is in this respect ahead of everything I have 
seen. Why not work for improved blackberries and currants ? 

Among the raspberries Cuthbert and Golden Queen and Shaffer, 
or probably Columbian, make our best trio — and Kansas is as good a 



390 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

blackcap as we have in the catalogues. Bat Cuthbert and Shaffer 
always kill back more or less. Golden Queen is the hardiest. Shaffer 
is ideal for canning, so far as flavor is concerned. Grolden Queen is 
too soft in the can. In all ways there is room yet for a great deal of 
work in the way of raspberry improvement. We must try to combine 
highest quality with entire hardiness and the prolific tendency of Cuth- 
bert. Nor must we loose sight of bright color, and capacity to stand 
in rows. Turner would be superb only it cannot bear fruit unless kept 
in hills. 

Some of our fruits have at present too short a season. While we 
can eat gooseberries and currants from July 1 to September 15, or 
later, our raspberry season covers only three weeks. The black vari- 
eties give us a much longer season. Grapes we can eat from August 
10 till midwinter, and possibly the Alice will carry us on easily to 
April E. P. Powell, New York, in Orange Judd Farmer. 



PEOGRBSS IN STRAWBERRY DEVELOPMENT. 

The improvement of the strawberry has been slow, but as Prof. 
W. J. Green of the Ohio Experiment Station points out (Bulletin 85), 
there has been progress nevertheless. No perfect berry for all pur- 
poses has been produced but the intensification of desirable traits and 
characteristics is going on continually. The station has grown thou- 
sands of seedlings, but all have been discarded, although many were 
more valuable than the majority of those offered for sale. While good 
varieties are of .great importance to fruit-growers, there is danger of 
making the variety question unduly prominent. It would be well to 
give more attention to intensive culture, as there are but few crops 
that offer greater inducements in this direction than the strawberry. 

The use of water for irrigating strawberries is another means of 
intensive culture, especially during the season of fruiting. The con- 
servation of moisture is best accomplished the first season by fall or 
early plowing, and thorough cultivation. It is quite as necessary to 
stir the soil after light as after heavy showers, even though no crust is 
formed. 

The following are the most promising of the new varieties : 

Aroma, Anna Kennedy, Beauty, Copernicus, Clyde, Carrie, Enor- 
mous, Glen Mary, Hall's Favorite, Portage,'Ruby, Rio, Staples, Tennes- 
see Prolific. Of well known kinds that can be recommended for gen- 
eral culttvation, Bubach, Brandywine, Greenville, Haverland, Lovett 
and Wartield are the best. — Orange Judd Farmer. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 391 



AN IMPORTA.NT POINT IN STRA.VVBEREY CULTURE. 

It is all-important tbat a strawberry grower should plant varieties 
that ripen in succession, froin the earliest to mid-season, or in many 
cases very late. It enables him to sell many more at a profit. If his 
market is a small and limited one, he is thus enabled to supply it 
through seven or eight weeks. If his market is large and unlim- 
ited, like the great northern ones, and his increase is limited solely 
by the size of his picking force, it enables him to pick more than twice 
as much. 

As to varieties, 13 years of experience has convinced me that the 
following are best : For extremely early, Improved Westbrook and 
Murray's Extra Early, pollenized with Meek's Early every fourth row. 
These are not only prolific, but the earliest, the most splendidly colored 
and the firmest and best shippers I ever saw. They ripen so early 
that they can be picked and sold before medium early varieties begin 
to ripen. To follow close on the heels of these, I would have Brandy- 
wine, Tennessee Prolific, Woolverten, West Lawn and Bubach, pollen- 
izing the Bubach and West Lawn with one of the three preceding 
varieties. These are all superb market varieties and heavy bearers. 
Aroma and Gandy give a large crop of the finest of late berries. 

The season can be still further prolonged by having the Lucretia 
dewberry, which ripens just as strawberries are gone, and is an exceed- 
ingly heavy bearer, of large, luscious berries. It succeeds everywhere. 
If growers will follow the plan above outlined, they can plant a large 
acreage and still never have their berries spoil in fields for lack of 
pickers. Nor will the market be swamped by a glut of berries all 
ripened at one time.— O. W. Blacknall, Vance Co., N. C, in Rural 
World. 



The Rural New Yorker says that observant strawberry growers 
have noticed that when nitrate of soda is applied to naturally soft- 
berried varieties of strawberries, such as Sharpless, the fruit loses 
color and becomes softer, while such varieties as Wilson and Lovett 
retain their color and firmness. When slower-acting fish or tank fer- 
tilizers are used even the naturally soft berries are not injured. 



392 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



TEN ACRES OF STRAWBERRIES. 

HOW TO PLANT, CULTIVATE AND MANAGE SUCH A FIELD. 

T. B. Wallace, who is known to many of our readers as secretary 
of the Republic Berry Growers' Association and an extensive grower 
of strawberries, contributed an article on the planting and management 
of 10 acres of strawberries to the " Strawberry Culturist," from which 
we quote as follows : 

" In the first place the ground should be thoroughly prepared as 
early in the spring as the season will permit. 'Now select your plants, 
the very best you can get of the varieties you intend to plant — the 
Clyde, Wm. Belt, Glen Mary and Gandy would be my choice, with 
probably a few Babach. Take them up carefully, throwing out any 
plant that has not a good lot of strong, healthy roots, and cleaning off 
old dead leaves and runners, wetting the roots and keeping them under 
cover, not allowing them to be exposed to sun or air. 

" Now mark out your rows straight and as shallow as you can to 
make them easily followed. Now take a boy and bucket with a little 
water in it and have him keep his plants straightened out with 
the roots down in the water and have him drop them just as the 
planter plants them with a dipple, the planter being careful to 
get them planted the proper depth, not too deep nor too shallow, 
but about as they stood before taking them up and firming the soil 
about the roots thoroughly before leaving each plant. A man and 
boy can plant 4,000 plants per day and do the work thoroughly. 
Mark your rows at least four feet apart and plant from 18 inches to 2 
feet in the row, according to the variety. Now that you are done plant- 
ing keep the cultivator going over them every week or 10 days until 
the weeds stop coming, which is about the middle of August, using 
some small-toothed cultivator that will thoroughly pulverize the soil 
and not ridge it up, and keep all the weeds that the cultivator fails to 
get cut with hoe or pulled out and turn your runners with the row 
until you get the desired amount of plants for a crop, and after treat 
all others as weeds. 

"In laying out 10 acres I would mark the rows north and south 
and run a drive exactly through the middle east and west, and at the 
middle of this driveway and on the south side I would build my pack- 
ing shed, leaving the opening on the north and next to the driveway. 
Now that you are ready for harvesting your berries, you should have 
a sufficient amount of new clean crates and boxes to hold your crop 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 393 

in readiness and convenient to packing shed. For 10 acres it will take 
about 150 pickers; put a sufiHcient number of field bosses out to super- 
intend the pickers to see that the pickers pick clean the rows assigned 
them and not bruise the fruit or put in any small or green fruit, stems 
or leaves. Keep one person stationed near the shed with a good con- 
ductor's punch to punch the tickets as the pickers come in or hand 
checks out, whichever is used.. In providing carriers for the pickers 
aiways keep 10 or 12 extra at the shed and have a boy to keep them 
filled with empties from the crates as your packers take the fruit out 
of them and set them just outside as tilled, so the pickers will only 
have to set down the fall carrier and pick up an empty and return to 
the held. Some have boys to carry empties to the pickers and bring 
in the fruit, but I have found from experience that by laying out plan- 
tation and drive as above that they do not have so far to go to empty, 
but that they will, I believe, pick more berries in a day and carry their 
own fruit, as it seems to rest them to walk to the shed and change 
their position for a few moments. 

"As to prepared fertilizers I have never used any, as here in the 
west the land is naturally rich, but we use all the stable manure and 
ashes we make spreading it on in the fall and winter after the ground 
freezes, leaving it to leach through the winter and early spring," — 
Southwest. 



THE MILLER EARLY RED RASPBERRY. 

Question : Judge Miller, did you raise the Early Red Raspberry, 
and what can you tell us about it ? No, I did not raise it ; never had 
it until last spring. I cut the plants hack to the ground, and yet they 
sent up some bearing canes, that bore as tine fruit as I have seen. My 
faith is great in it. An eastern man "who grows it extensively says : 
*' Should the Vanderbilts, the Goalds and the Astors distribute their 
entire wealth among the people of the United States and Canada, the 
public would not be benefited as much as it will by the introduction of 
this berry." 

From the substantial testimonials given, it must be just what we 
have been needing these many years. My plants have made a strong 
growth, and if spared until the crop ripens we will know more about 
it for this region. Its origin I do not know, but learn that the parries 
raising it refused to sell plants for a number of years ; in an endeavor 
to multiply it for their own planting, the fruit sold so well. In the 
north the London is the favorite, but those who seem to know say that 
the Miller is its equal, and the plants can be bought for half the price. — 
Rural World. 



394 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 



MR. COLLTNGWOOD'S STRA.WBERKY METHODS. 

With me the only berries that are worth growing: are the large^ 
dark-colored, high-flavored fruit that can be sold " twelve hours from 
the vines." It is only with such fruit that I compete with the larger 
growers. I use chiefly the varieties that grow best on single hills, like 
Parker Earle, Marshall, Glen Mary and Gardiner. I use the hill sys- 
tem for various reasons, chief of which are the facts that we want sun- 
shine on all sides of the plant, and that we usually grow other crops 
while the strawberry plants are gaining their size. Our plan of grow- 
ing is about as follows: Last spring we selected a strong piece of 
land. I would prefer a level, well-drained field that had been in cow- 
peas the previous year. This was first worked several times with the 
cutaway and thoroughly chopped up. It was then deeply plowed with 
a swivel plow so that the cutaway soil was turned to ihe bottom. On 
most of my soil I would omit this plowing, as the soil is so shallow 
that part of the sub-soil would be plowed to the surface. After plow- 
ing, the ground was well worked, first with the Acme and then with 
the Iron Age two-horse cultivator. The object of this was to have the 
soil well pulverized and aired down to the sub-soil. Large and strong 
plants were dug with a transplanter, and set three feet apart in rows 
six feet wide. Those plants never stopped growing for a moment. 
Just after the strawberries were set out I planted June eating potatoes 
midway between the rows of strawberries. The potatoes were dug in 
July, and the rows were leveled and worked with the two-horse culti- 
vator. With the transplanter I then set out to run out plants on the 
potato rows, fifteen inches apart, and also in between the old plants. 
This bed will probably be picked three years, and will then be plowed 
up and either planted to late cabbage or sowed to cowpeas. Next 
year I shall change this plan and set the plants four feet apart each 
way, with hills of early potatoes between the plants. The potatoes 
will be started on sods in the hotbed and trasplanted after frost. I 
have also transplanted strawberries after clearing the land of peas and 
Crosby sweet corn. My Glen Mary potted plants were set out this 
year in October. I have transplanted Parker Earle strawberries *a8 
late as the second week in November and picked a fair crop from them 
the following spring. — Orange Judd Farmer. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 395 



EXTENDING STRAWBERRY FRUITING SEASON. 

Where berries out of season bring a very high price, cold storage 
has been employed quite successfully. However, this is beyond the 
reach of most of us, hence the great mass of family gardeners mast be 
content with simpler methods. A number cf'early and late varieties 
of strawberries have been produced which will enable anyone to pro- 
long the season several days by simply selecting varieties with refer- 
ence to their time of fruiting. Early varieties may be hastened in the 
spring by planting on a warm, sandy soil, with a southern exposure. 
If the mulch is removed as soon as the ground is in condition to work, 
and the early varieties thus exposed thoroughly cultivated until the 
berries begin to ripen, their fruiting season will be hastened. 

However, the opposite process may be more successfully employed 
with one of the latest varieties. The late ones should be given a north- 
ern exposure and left unmulched in the winter until the ground is 
deeply frozen, and then mulched lightly with straw or coarse manure. 
After this mulch has settled and is covered with snow or ice, spread 
on a thick layer of straw, the thicker this second covering is the bet- 
ter. Both of the layers should be left on the late strawberries until 
the earlier ones are in blossom, when it should be removed and the 
plants helped through the first mulch in caee they do not readily come 
through alone. Plants left covered until late in spring have less ability 
to help themselves through any mulch than those that have been 
allowed to start early. 

Gaudy's Prize, deeply mulched in a manure as described abc^ve, 
may be made to fruit through the last of July, and with considenible 
watching I have found no trouble in extending its season into the 
month of August. If left covered too long after warm weather, they 
should be ca,refuliy watched and uncovered as soon as they show signs 
of smothering. When uncovered, plants that have been heavily mulched 
will be thoroughly blanched, and in this condition they may be left 
covered as long as the young leaves remain plump and fresh. For a 
long time Gaudy's Prize has seemed well adapted to this kind of treat- 
ment. In this section it is a shy bearer, but its extra late fruiting sea- 
son and large, firm berries have kept it in the field. The Western has 
been highly recommended of late as having the good qualities of 
Gaudy's Prize and at the same time being more prolific. The Michigan 
is another late variety which has been much improved, and is claimed 



396 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

to be from ten days to two weeks later than Gandy's Prize. The ber- 
ries are said to be firm, large and the vines very prolific Charles B. 

Cook, Michigan, in Prairie Farmer. 



WHEN TO PLOW UP STRAWBERRIES. 

I have noticed the advise of several strawberry specialists that 
*'it did not pay to retain strawberry planis more than two years; that 
a grower can turn under his beds every spring and reset the ground 
cheaper than he can clear the ground of weeds and grass." 

This is no doubt true if the ground was not thoroughly freed from 
such foul stuff before planting, but I think one is very unwise to ever 
think of setting plants on such ground till every vestige of it has been 
exterminated. 

My first experience of setting plants on sod ground was most em- 
phatically impressed upon my mind. I had more hoeing and hand- 
pulling to do on that plot of plants than on any plot of four times the 
area since then. I grow at least one cultivated crop previous to set- 
ting plants, and if the ground is not then free from grass and weeds I 
grow another, but I do not forget to fertilize, as two crops in succes- 
sion will exhaust much of the available fertility. 

One field which I set to plants recently grew two crops of sweet 
corn. Each August I sowed rye in the standing corn and during the 
winter I drew out manure and gave it a good coat; there was but lit- 
tle leaching of soil or manure, and when plowed under I had a deal of 
green matter to supply humus to the soil. This humus is very neces- 
sary to plant life ; it is a means of supplying nitrogen to the plant. 
Sdll will retain moisture better, besides regulating its texture. 

The first season after setting plants the ground is kept perfectly 
clean, and when winter sets in we give the plants a covering of straw 
if in an exposed position. When our plants are through fruiting we 
burn them over. This will destroy many weed seeds and any grass 
which may be growing. We start the cultivator immediately and keep 
it going often enough during the fall to kill any weeds which start and 
prevent a crust forming on the soil. By this course we have kept a 
bed in profitable fruiting for three and four years. One of my neigh- 
bors gathered fruit from beds which were set five years ago, and is 
now preparing them for the sixth crop. This season he said they 
yielded nearly 100 bushels per acre, which is as good as the average 
crop. 

I have kept book account of my berry crop for several years, and 
from my own experience I find it much cheaper to grow beds at least 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 397 

three years. I find that the first crop will cost two to three times as 
much as the two succeeding ones. The fruit from my beds in '96 cost 
me just five cents per quart, and this year the cost would not have 
exceeded two cents if I had not had to sort. As it was, they cost two 
and one-fourth cents. 

One advantage of the old beds is that the fruit will be a few days 
earlier, and anything which will hasten maturity without increasing 
the cost is quite an advantage to the progressive fruit-grower. — B. A. 
Wood, Kalamazoo county, Michigan, in Epitomist. 



CULTURE OF RASPBERRIES. 

Raspberries prefer a deep loam that is rather moist than dry, there- 
by keeping the roots cool. All the manure that can be worked into 
the soil to advantage before planting should be used. It should not 
be coarse, as such will not mingle with the soil properly. After the 
ground has been thoroughly prepared by plowing and replowing, 
harrow it smooth, mark it off in rows five feet apart each way, thus 
enabling horse-cultivation to be done both ways. A block planted in 
this way is easier and more economically worked than the row or hedge 
system. Perhaps more berries can be produced by the latter, but the 
fruit will not be so fine, and the fine fruit always brings the best prices. 

Purchase plants, grown from root-cuttings, from a reliable nursery- 
man. Trench them in the ground as soon as received, and take out 
only as fast as needed while planting. Pat two or three (according to 
size) in each hill, and see that the soil is well worked among the roots. 
After the hole is filled, tread the ground gently with the foot. Prepare 
the ground and plant well, as this operation is to last for years. 

All that is necessary the first year is to keep the ground loose and 
the weeds down by continued deep cultivation, which is easily done by 
going through the rows both ways once a week or oftener, if necessary, 
with the cultivator. This will help to keep the ground moist, too — a 
point very important in a dry season. Pull out all weeds from the hills 
that the cultivator does not reach. " Clean, thorough cultivation," is 
the motto of the successful gardener, and the best results are not at- 
tained without it. 

In the fall select five or six of the best canes in each hill for next 
season's fruit, pulling out all others. Take these canes, one hill in 
each hand, bend them down permanently. Five feet apart may seem 
too great a distance for such treatment, but where they have had proper 
culture no difficulty will be experienced in this point. After the first 



398 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

season, this laying down and covering will not be necessary. Still I 
think red raspberries are, like grapes, better covered in the winter in 
northern climates. 

In the spring, as soon as danger of severe frosts is over, lift the 
canes out of the covering .and cut off a third of their growth. As 
soon as the ground is in condition, start the horse and plow deep, but 
not so close as to disturb the roots. Keep the cultivator going until 
picking begins, when all horse work should be stopped, as fruit will be 
jarred off and wasted. 

After the crop is disposed of, trim out all the old canes, clean up 
the ground of all rubbish and burn immediately ; after which go through 
the same process as directed for the previous fall ; only do not stir 
the ground too late, as it is likely to cause a late growth that will not 
ripen before frost comes. Too much emphasis cannot be put on the 
points of deep, clean and frequent cultivation. — Colman'sEural World. 



THE FALL PLANTING OF RASPBERRIES. 

While in a general way, for our northern climate, I am very little 
in favor of planting most kinds of nursery stock in autumn, I have had 
excellent results from the planting of raspberries at this season. Hence 
I have no hesitation, says a writer in Ohio Farmer, to recommend to 
those who have not already prepared for a supply of these for the 
home garden that they shall arrange to plant of both the red and black 
sorts the coming fall ; and plant generously of each kind, not purchas- 
ing the plants by the single dozen of some irresponsible nursery agent, 
representing that he has some new sort superior to any other that has 
ever yet been introduced, and for which he will charge you for a dozen 
plants almost, and often quite as much as you could purchase 100 of 
some reliable grower. Send and get the price-lists of some reliable 
nurserymen and learn from them the actual value of the plants desired, 
then select from the old and tried standard varieties such as are known 
to succeed, send in your order for from 50 to 500 plants, according to the 
space you desire to devote to them, and when received plant carefully, 
and my word for it, if given proper care in after culture, unless some 
untoward conditions should cause a failure, vou will be satisfied when 
the fruiting season has arrived that your investment has been a most 
profitable one. I would recommend not too early planting, the object 
being not so much to secure any growth this fall as to have the plants 
in the ground and ready for growth when spring opens. 

From the middle to the end of October is, I think, all things con- 
sidered, the best time for this work if to be done at all in autumn. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 399 

For at this time the new plants are much better matured than at an 
earlier date and the growth they have made before removal will be 
worth much more to them than they could be expected to make there- 
after. Some good authorities have claimed that the later they can be 
placed in the earth before it freezes up in the fall the better, and my 
experience on at least one occasion would seem to very strongly cor- 
roborate that theory. Engaging to plant for a friend about 500 rasp- 
berries from my own grounds, in the autunin, I was belated by some 
means beyond what I expected, and as it turned out, just reached his 
place in time to get them set the day before winter closed in and the 
ground froze up. We took especial care in planting, it being so late, 
though we hardly expected winter to come on so soon, and around 
each plant as set we drew up a little mound of earth, which we in- 
structed should be removed in spring to the level of the surface, and 
although the winter following proved to be a severe one, never have I 
seen a newly-set plantation of raspberries, either of fall or spring 
planting, do better. This matter of raising a little mound of earth 
around the crown of any plant or tree set in autumn I consider of 
much importance, often serving the twofold purpose of protecting it 
from water which might settle in and freeze about the plant, and also 
as a protection against damage by mice. — Prairie Farmer. 



EASPBERRIES AND BLACKBERRIES. 

One of the most diflScult things in our horticultural work is to 
properly care for plantations of raspberries and blackberries after they 
have become established. To keep them in narrow rows and to keep 
the spaces between rows free from weeds and suckers is a difficult 
matter, especially if we use deep-cutting implements. The persistent 
suckering of the red raspberry and blackberry in the spaces, aggravated 
by the use of cultivators which breaks the roots and causes them to 
spring up by the thousands, must be overcome, if our plantations would 
be made productive and lasting. To accomplish this I have pursued 
the following modes of planting and of culture : The first requisite in 
proper planting is to have your ground thoroughly plowed, harrowed, 
and made level and free from all rubbish, stones or other impedimenta 
to a thorough cultivation afterwards. This should be done this fall 
for next spring's planting because, as a rule, of late years our springs 
are so short that there is too much to be done for the time we have. 
In spring just as soon as is possible the land is furrowed in rows six 
feet apart and furrows made deep as possible. In the bottom of these 
farrows we put our plants, covering them sufficiently to start them 



400 STATE HOETICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

growiDg, and filling up the furrow by subsequent cultivation till our 
land is as level as before farrowing. The only thing is to be carefal 
when planting blackcaps that you do not plant them too deeply in the 
bottom of the furrow lest in case of much wet weather the plants 
would be smothered, but when they once start then you are safe. This 
deep planting is done for two purposes : First, to guard plants from 
drouth the first season, and second, to force deep rooting of plants so 
that they will be below the cultivator, thus protecting the roots from 
breakage. With these two precautions I am insured a fine season's 
growth and a fair amount of fine fruit the first season. The first sea- 
son's culture can be safely done with any implement that will loosen 
the soil so that it does not run too deep. Even a double shovel will 
do good work by using small shovels. With the second season our 
trouble begins, for now an innumerable army of suckers will spring up, 
and unless subdued will suck the life from our bearing plants. For 
this purpose I have made a cultivator, and its use proves its superiority 
over the general run of implements. This cultivator is run every two 
weeks in the spaces until every sucker and weed is eradicated and the 
top soil is as loose as dust. It should not be set to cut deeper than 
three inches. By its use my rows are uniform in width, all spaces are 
free from weeds and suckers, the soil is mide drouth proof, and all the 
strength of the roots gjes to the fruiting plant and not to nourish 
suckers. The cultivator can be made for one horse or for two, of 
course running the one-horse twice in the space. For a two-horse 
cultivator I use 4x4 hickoiy or oak. The /\ arms are six feet long and 
the cross arm four feet. The center cross arm insures firmness. For 
the knives or cutters use bar steel one inch wide and three-eighths inch 
thick. Out this into lengths of one foot. Have them bent in L form» 
the lower, or knife part, being three inches. This is drawn out to a 
sharp cutting edge and kept sharp all the time. Insert them in the 
beams in mortices, the knife cutting inside and slightly inclined to the 
rear. The upright arm of the knife should be sharpened for at least 
three inches. For cross arms use triangular harrow teeth, inclined to 
the rear so as to prevent clogging. For a one-horse cultivator the /\ 
arms need to be four feet and the cross beams two and one-half feet. 
It will require about eighteen knives and nine teeth for a two-horse 
cultivator, and for a one-horse twelve knives and six teeth. If you 
once try this implement you will agree with the writer that it is par 
excellence, the one for success in growing fine berries. It can be used 
in cultivation of currants and gooseberries where planted the proper 
distances, and with the same success as with the berries. — J. H. Haynes 
in Prairie Farmer. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 401 



FALL BEARING RASPBERRIES. 

To many persons the fruit of the raspberry in the fall is a luxury, 
coming as it does when no other fruit of this nature is to be had. 
There are but two sorts that have proved of any value, of about a half 
dozen kinds tried— the Catawissa and the Belle de Eontenay. 

A.t one time the latter sort was much grown by amateurs in these 
parts, but I have not found many persons growing it of late. Fre- 
quently at the horticultural shows held in September very fine dishes 
of this berry were to be seen. When shown alongside of the Cata- 
wissa, they were, as a rule, far superior to it. Nevertheless, perhaps 
because it merits are not so well known to the gardeners of today, it 
is not rarely met with, the Catawissa being grown almost solely. 
Another variety, called Marvel of the Four Seasons, a French kind, 
was tried, but did not prove of any value. 

To have these fall bearing sorts produce well they must be cut 
down in the spring, so thai vigorous young canes will grow, as from 
these the crop of fruit is to come. The stronger the canes the better 
the crop of fruit, hence the importance of applying plenty of manure 
to the ground, and keeping up a cultivation of the soil while the plants 
are growing. 

It is not impossible to have fruit on ordinary raspberries when 
treated as these are, though there is something in the nature of the 
two kinds mentioned which seems to fit them especially for fall bear- 
ing — Joseph Meehan, in Gardening. 



ADVICE TO SHIPPING ASSOCIATIONS. 

Fully appreciating your efforts in the interest of co-operation and 
the great interest you have in its success, I feel you will be glad to 
give space in your valuable paper for an article along this line. We 
are pleased to say that the co-operative union recently organized at 
Monett for the distribution of fruit is increasing in membership rapidly. 
Already 20 associations have enrolled, or have decided to enroll as 
soon as they hold their meetings to vote upon it. Everything is look- 
ing encouraging for success. 

Each local association should, as near as they can, select one com- 
mission house in each of the leading markets that will be used by the 
H— 26 



402 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

union in placing shipments. Then when their car is routed, to what- 
ever city it may be drawn for, they will have a selling agent there to 
consign to. As the success of distribution will depend to some con- 
siderable extent upon the way our berries are handled at the other 
end of the line it will pay each association to take the paine to inform 
themselves as to the commission house they engage with and their 
manner of doing business. 

In the first place it is, in our opinion, a bad business policy for 
any local association to set up a competition in the sale of their own 
products by having two selling agents in the same market, for compe- 
tition never raises prices. Now, to illustrate : The Monett association 
might have one house as their agent in Denver and Springfield another. 
This would not bring Monett's berries in competition with Monett ber- 
ries, but if Monett has two houses in Denver she brings her goods in 
competition with herself. 

Again, it has been our observation that (here is a great deal of dif- 
ference, as far as the interest of the grower is concerned, in the way of 
business of the sale of our berries is conducted. The commission man 
who tries to hold up the price always conserves the interest of the 
grower better than the one who educates his trade to continually ex- 
pect prices to go lower, and persists in operating on the low price 
theory with the parties with whom they expect to place our goods in 
order to pass as much through their hands as possible, figuring that it 
will pay them better to sell two cars of 600 cases each at $1.50 per 
case, than it would one car at $2 per case, which it would, to the amount 
of $60 in commissions. But the grower would lose $600 in the deal. 

Another point before we leave this part of the subject: The prac- 
tice is indulged in quite a good deal, by selling agents of reshipping 
our goods to other cities, where we also have regular distributing 
agents. This will have a tendency, more than any other, to destroy the 
benefits intended to be derived from distribution. This brings our 
fruit in competition with itself again and the first thing you know some 
one will be cutting prices. Most certainly will this be the case if the 
prices in the market to which our goods are reshipped are averaging 
better than the prices in the city or market from which they are shipped, 
especially so, if the two markets should be located near each other, out 
of the desire to prevent better return sales from a competitive mar- 
ket than the parly who reships our products is able to make them- 
selves. 

In view of the fact that through the Union we shall be able to so 
distribute our crop among the large distributing cities as to make it 
unnecessary to reship from one distributing point to another by ex- 



MTSOELLANEOUS PAPERS. 403 

press, and the fact also that every time they are reshipped they are in- 
jured more or lest in appearance, and consequently, bring less money, 
it will be well to give this matter due consideration in the selection of 
our selling agents. While the selling agents in all the large distribut- 
ing cities will have to reship by express to all their out-of-town trade, 
in the smaller towns and cities where no car-load shipments will be 
sent, it will no doubt be best for us to expect that our general distrib- 
uting agents in the large cities do not interfere with each other by ex- 
press shipments through claimed branch agencies or otherwise. 

In regard to our representatives that we will send to the mar- 
kets this season, perhaps it would be well for each association to se- 
lect their men soon, so they could be assigned to their different points, 
make their arrangements to be ready to go, and it would no doubt be 
well for all of them to meet with the Executive Committee some time 
between now and the shipping season. 

Mr. Editor, for fear that my communication is already too long, I 
will close by saying to all strawberry-growers, and especially to mem- 
bers of the Co-operative Union, to give all outside parties who are not 
growers, who are openly or otherwise fighting the co-operation of pro- 
ducers, a wide berth, the relative position of the two being a sufficient 
reason for so doing. — Geo. T. Tippin, Nichols, Mo., in Southwest. 



ORGANIZATION IN MARKETING PRODUCTS. 

Should producers organize to market their products ? Most of the 
receivers of perishable products will answer this querry in the affirmi- 
tive, because a great many valid reasons may be advanced to show the 
benefits arising from organization. The pioneers in successful organi- 
zation were the fruit-growers of California. In the early stages of 
their efforts to grow fruits and vegetables for distant markets, they 
were beset by obstacles difficult to surmount. The item of distance 
to paying markets and the question of transportation and rates called 
for the ablest men in the industry. Powerful corporations had to be 
handled in the interest of the producer ; living rates, faster time and 
improved methods were demanded, and the railroads saw the wisdom 
of .yielding, as the concessions tended to double their business every 
year — and the enormous traffic which followed is no longer news to 
anybody. 

The further from market the greater the need of getting together, 
as the risk increases with the distance. In this connection, the rout- 
ing and distribution of the goods becomes very important, and cannot 



404 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

be snccessfully handled without organization. Wherever there is any 
considerable number of growers or shippers, steps should be taken to- 
wards organization. Elect officers to direct affairs for the coining sea- 
son. Good, responsible, experienced firms should be selected to handle 
your products in every city you desire to reach. 

Such firms are bound to take better care of your interests than of 
individuals, because there is more at stake, and the merchant realizes 
that if he makes a mistake or at any time misleads you in his advices, 
he is likely to be dropped for somebody else. One telegram or letter 
serves all — and the labor saved at both ends, by dealing with one man 
instead of 12 or 50, becomes apparent. The commission man charges 
the Association seven instead of ten per cent, and it really pays him 
better, because of work and time saved. 

In dealing with transportation companies and other corporations, 
your claims would receive attention where the individual would fail ; 
recalling the old adage, that in " Union there is strength." In buying 
your packages, fertilizers, or anything else needed by the community, 
you can secure better terms than any individual. All sorts of con- 
cessions are made to such bodies, the profits being greater and the risk 
less — all of which is natural and customary in every channel of trade. 
Incidentally, the isolated shippers at the smaller shipping points are 
protected to a beneficial extent, as the unions and larger bodies else- 
where, who are posted daily by wire, in a great measure save all the 
markets. 

Much more might be written showing the necessity of unions and 
organized bodies, without which the industry cannot produce all it is 
capable of at any shipping point. It might be urged by some that these 
unions have a tendency to flock to leading firms in each city. This, 
however, need not necessarily follow, as unions, like individuals, go to 
different firms, and they will continue to do so, as they increase and 
see the necessity for it. — P. M. Kiely before National League of Com- 
mission Merchants, at Buffalo, N. Y., Jan. 12, 1898. 



BUSINESS SIDE OF FRUIT CULTURE, 

In Horticulture Hall, Boston, J. H. Hale of South Glastonbury, 
Ct., spoke on the •' Business Side of Fruit Culture." 

I am suprised, said Mr. Hale, that New England does not wake up 
to the chance of the control of the fine preserved fruit trade, which is 
invaded by as distant a competitor as Germany. Another oppurtunity 
for New England is the cultivation of chestnuts as a commercial crop- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 405 

Oq a slight investment, by grafting on sprouts, a large profit can be 
made. 

Fruit culture alone enables one to sell the public " watered stock " 
without objection, for the more you adulterate the solids of fruit with 
water, the better market it finds. There is also economy in this, for 
the soil is lest' exhausted in growing fruit thus treated than in raising 
other products. Long experience has taught that the longer we keep 
a healthy foliage in the fall, the better fruit buds will appear in spring. 
It is a mistake to leave land bare, as it thereby loses nitrogenous mat- 
ter, the principal fruit food. A good plan is to have a cover crop of 
one kind of clover oranother ; sow in October and plow down in early 
spring. Phosphoric acid and potash are the chief fertilizers needed, 
but in different proportions, according to the soil. 

It is most necessary to watch for the " San Jose scale," a disease 
of the bark, and the "yellows," so dangerous to peach trees. The 
business side of fruit culture also demands the thinning of all fruit 
trees ; such treatment of apple trees will insure a crop every year, and 
in the case with blackberries and similar fruits result in a fairer, and 
so more salable, product. 



GROWING AND MARKETING FRUIT. 

The greatest obstacle to successful growing of fruit culture lies in 
the imperfect preparation of the soil. Most of our soils are deficient 
in humus or vegetable matter. They are also compact and hard, con- 
sequently deficient in moisture. Therefore these two elements must 
be secured before we can hope to succeed, particularly with small 
fruits whose roots cannot extend deep down to draw up moisture from 
below. I have found that in no way can I secure this needed mois- 
ture so certainly as by incorporating humus into the soil, making it 
porous and permeable to the air, which carries moisture that becomes 
condensed and stored up for plant growth. 

This humus can be most cheaply and easily procured by growing 
such crops as clover, oats and peas, rye and buckwheat, as time and 
circumstances allow, and plowing them under in a green state. Be 
careful to compress the soil by rolling after plowing. This green mat- 
ter quickly decomposes, its moisture feeds the plants and dissolves 
the mineral elements in the soil for plant growth. 

I have found it very necessary to deepen the soil in order to hold 
sufficient moisture, and my land has all been plowed nearly 12 inches 
deep. This has resulted in growing large crops on land where for- 



406 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIEIY. 

merly they were ruined by protracted drouth. Having: properly pre- 
pared our soils by deep cultivation and proper fertilization, let us se- 
lect such varieties as our location and the demands of the market 
require. I have found that only by trial on my own soil could I de- 
termine their value to me. I have been an earnest advocate of quality 
in fruits, but I must say to the man who is growing fruits for market : 
Grow what the market demands, which is large, showy fruit. Quality 
has given place to good looks. I cite you the Keiffer pear and the 
Ben Davis apple, which have been sold the past fall for more money 
than many choice varieties. Therefore the commercial grower must 
be governed in his choice of varieties by the demands of the market 
and the adaptation of the fruit to his own soil. 

The sale of fruit in our markets is dependent upon certain condi- 
tions which may be classed under four heads : First, the character of 
the fruit offered ; second, the kind of package used ; third, proper 
grading and packing; and, fourth, the condition in which it is received. 
The first of these conditions must be supplied by and is dependent 
upon the producer. If he has first-class fruit to put on the market, 
the main point is secured, provided that the other conditions are com- 
plied with. One of the most disturbing elements in the marketing of 
fruit, particularly small fruits, is the fraud practiced in using small 
packages of every description. 

Believing that we cannot expect any material increase in the sell- 
ing price of our fruits so long as we persist in our present methods, I 
can but recommend for your consideration these several points which 
I have presented. 

1. Improved methods in culture, resulting in improved quality. 

2. Standard packages, established by law, suitable for each class^ 
of fruit. 

3. Proper grading of fruit, all below a given grade liable to seiz- 
ure and confiscation. 

4. Organized effort through state and local organization to se- 
cure reasonable and proper charges by transportation companies and 
canners. — Walter F. Taber, in Orange Judd Farmer. 



WASTEFUL MARKETING. 

Losses suffered by the present methods of selling farm produce 
are not always well understood by the farmer. The fact is, there are 
other things besides the middlemen to cause shrinkage in his returns. 
There is much actual waste chargeable to the present system, or rather 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 407 

lack of system, by which his goods go to market. In a recent bulletin 
issued by Secretary Wilson on this subject. the following strong lan- 
guage is used: "To anyone who will take the trouble to make even a 
cursory examination of the markets of any of our large cities, it will 
be evident that there is ample room for improvement in the manner of 
marketing farm produce. A very little additional inquiry into the sub- 
ject will reveal a condition of things which, involving as it does a 
waste of material and labor on the part of the producer aggregating 
an enormous loss, may be described without exaggeration as dis- 
astrous." The writer of the above declines to discuss the present or- 
ganization of the trade, but taking things as they are he proceeds to 
emphasize his statement by a recital of some cold facts. 

Individual farmers often make mistakes both in shipping on their 
own account and in selling to local buyers, and by using barrels and 
packages larger or smaller than the accepted standard or of a different 
form find their generous measure shrink to regulation size on the "re- 
turns " and their undersized or unusual package heavily discounted. 
All through the season instances may be found daily in all our great 
markets which indicate unmistakably a lack on the part of packer and 
shipper of acquaintance with the conditions which attend transporta- 
tion of produce and with the demands of the market. 

It is the utter lack of intelligent system at the shipping point that 
brings these unprofitable results. The local buyer, as a rule, makes 
no effort to provide a better system or educate the farmer. The smart, 
self-sufficient farmer or shipper need not felicitate himself that he is 
not harmed by this state of things — that only the careless and ignorant 
are losers. This is a narrow view of the matter. The results of such 
imperfect trade conditions reach far beyond the unfortunate shipments 
first affected. The local buyer loses on some of his purchases, and 
therefore must have a wider margin on all. A confused condition of 
consignments makes extra work to sort, rearrange, repack and sell 
damaged goods, and commissions must be high enough to pay the 
extra help. These losses and others of similar nature fall on all ship- 
pers alike. But more than all this is the fact that goods sold at de- 
preciated rates tend to depress the market for all grades. Purchasers, 
after repeated disappointmentsin the effort to find a satisfactory article, 
turn to other lines of goods or to those of foreign origin. 

When we see a farmer work early and late and eat the bread of 
sorrow that he may buy expensive machinery only to subject it to such 
treatment as will quietly destroy it ; when he winters his reaper in the 
field and gathers his grain into a roofless barn ; when we see the 
kitchen and dairy utensils scattered about and put to improper uses, 



408 STATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. 

the horse drinkiog from the milkpail and the boys coasting in the best 
copper boiler, we rightly infer that there is a lack of system in the 
management of that household which entails in all of its departments 
slavish labor and ruinous waste. We see a similar lack of system in 
the present organization of the farmers' trade. Can it fail to bring 
similar results, and is it a more attractive exhibition in the one case 
than in the other ? If the farmer will organize and himself assume 
control of his trade, a reform will speedily follow and hereia lies his 
remedy. — L. M. St. John, Montgomery county, N. Y., in Orange Judd 
Farmer. 



SUBSOILING. 

Every crop season brings with it conditions peculiar to itself and 
gives prominence to methods of soil management which the previous 
season, perhaps, by reason of its character, threw into the background, 
The dry years of '93 and '94 emphasized the importance of storing 
moisture in the soil and conserving it by appropriate tillage during 
the season of growth, and during those years a good deal of thought 
was given to subsoiling to increase the storage capacity of the soil, 
and to continue surface cultivation to prevent evaporation. In 1895, 
with a moderate rainfall, good crops were the rule, and much of the 
success of the year was probably due to the fact that the lessons of 
the previous two years in regard to the importance of conserving 
moisture, were fresh in the minds of every farmer. Then came the 
wet season of 1896, which made the west forget that it had ever been 
in any danger of suffering from drouth. The present season, which 
was wet in the earlier months and turned dry at a critical period in 
the growth of the corn crop, would, we verily believe, result in a great 
deal of loss to the corn crop if 1896 had been a dry year, but the 
season, coming as it did after a wet year, care that might have been 
taken to conserve the moisture which fell in the first half of the sea- 
son was not taken, and the adver.se effect of the dry period thus be- 
came very considerably intensified. 

The lesson that one should endeavor to master in relation to soil 
management are not to be extracted from a single year, but rather from 
a series of years. For several seasons prior to 1893 tile drainage was 
a very popular thing, and a great deal of it was done. Moreover, 
many desired to drain who felt unable to do so. When the dry years 
came the men who had believed strongly in tile drainage never spoke 
of it, even in a whisper. After the wet season of '96 there was a simi- 
lar silence in regard to subsoiling. The land had been \^'et enough re- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 409 

cently, so why make reservoirs to hold more moisture ? Bat there are 
thousands of fields in the west that that succumbed to drouth this year 
which probably would not have done so bad had they been subsoiled 
in the fall of 1896. Many are beginning to realize this, too, although, 
as is too commonly the case, the realization comes too late to do any 
good except to those who can permanently store up their experience 
for future guidance. 

Among this class of farmers it is probable that some subsoiling 
will be done this year. The time to do it will be shortly at hand. 
Nearly or quite all the experiments that have been made in subsoiling 
in the West have shown that the work should be done in the fall. The 
opportunity for accumulating moisture is better and, with our present 
knowledge of the subject, it seems pretty certain that the land needs 
time to settle after the work is done and before the crop is planted. 
This makes it necessary to do in the fall such subsoiling as may be 
done. It should be remembered, too, that not all soils are benefited 
by subsoiling. Lands that are sandy or gravelly underneath and have 
a tendency to leach, are probably injured rather than benefited by sub- 
soiling. On the other hand, lands in which the subsoil is most com- 
pact, and from which water finds a difficulty in escaping except by 
surface drainage, are most benefited by thisjtreatment. Everyone' who 
thinks of subsoiling should study the character of his own land and 
try and determine whether it will in his case be beneficial. In case of 
doubt a little subsoiling may be done in an experimental way upon a 
small area. 

No more individually instructive experiment could be made by the 
farmer than to subsoil a strip in a field this fall and then watch the re- 
sult next season to see how the yield compares with that of the re- 
mainder of the field on which no subsoiling has been done. We are 
not prepared, and we do not think anybody in the West is prepared, 
to say with any degree of positiveness under just what circumstances 
subsoiling is profitable and when it is not. That is a question that can 
only be determined after the collection of a good deal more experience 
than has yet been recorded. We think, however, that the treatment 
is one that will be profitable on many soils, and we would be glad to 
have any of our readers who have tried it, or think of trying this fall, 
give their experience with it as soon as they attain results from which 
deductions can be made — Live Stock Indicator. 



INDEX. 



Page 
Address of welcome— Mayor Bartlett, 

Springfield 14 

Address— Pres. R. H. Jesse _• 92 

Address of welcome— Mayor Cave, Mo- 

berly 161 

Apple-root plant-louse— Prof. J. M. Sted- 

man 19 

Apple culture, notes on— W.R. Wilkinson. 194 

Apples, commercial 130 

Apples, variations In . 346 

Apples for cold storage 349 

Apples, how to keep 351 

Apple trees, pruning. 351 

Apple , the Gano - — 355 

Apple , the Ben Davis 355 

Apple packers, suggestions to 357 

Advice to shipping associations— G. T. 

Tlppln 408 

Associations 133 

B 

Banquet.. 126 

Bees relation of, to horticulture 244 

Ben Davis orchard— B. Logan 195 

Birds, our useful— O. Wldmann 168 

Bitter rot. 372 

Blackberries. 64, 397 

Blackberry , the Klttatlnny 68 

Borers 372 

Bulbs, hardy— Mrs. G. E. Dugan 166 

Business side of fruit culture— J. H. Hale, 
Conn 404 

c 

Cherries, best— G. P. Turner 272 

Cherries, notes on— J. Troop, Ind 375 

Cherry trees 376 

Cherries, how to grow 378 

Committees, standing 4 

Committees, appointed 37,202 

Committee on final resolutions 156, 276 

Committee on Otiltuary 311 

Constitution of State society 6 

Constitution for local societies 8 

Co-operation, drawbacks of — B. Lelthold. 227 

Co-operation in South Missouri 298 

County societies, list of 11 

County societlas , reports 209 

Crop statistics— L. A. Goodman 215 

Cultivation of young trees— G. A. Smith. 239 



D 

Page 

Delegates to Springfield. 37 

Delegates to Moberly 179 

Discussion on— 

Arsenates 108 

Associations 131 

Bees 130 

Birds 172 

Blackberries 64 

Boi'deaux mixture — 108 

Evaporators 105 

Fertilizers 127 

Grafting 127 

Grapes 79, 286 

Horticulture in schools '. . 270 

Insect pests 112,224, 301 

London purple 110 

Marketing fruit 132 

Marketing strawberry 55 

Orchards 186, 308 

Paris green 109 

Peaches 86 

Pears 265 

Potatoes 293 

Preservatives 105 

Raspberries 58 

Spraying 107, 128 

Storage 129 

Transportation 256 

Varieties of apples 196 

Vegetables 261 

E 

Evaporator 104 

F 

Formalin 104 

Fruits, jellies and preserves— Mrs. Wm. 

Quayle 223 

Fruits forborne culture— Mrs. H. V. Estill. 301 
Fruit culture of Ozark hills- Geo. BUI, 

Ark 308 

G 

Grafting 352 

Grapes, old and new— Sam' 1 Miller 69 

Grapes In South Missouri— J. T. Snod- 

grass 72 

Grapes, care and pruning of — Chas. 

Teubner 75 

Grape growing in Missouri valley— A. 

Chandler, Kas, 277 



INDEX. 



Page 

Grape growing— P. P. Dobozy 279 

Grape-rot 287 

Growing apples for profit— B. R. Boucher. 195 
Growing and marketing fruit 405 

H 

Hardy bulbs— Mrs. G. E. Dugan 166 

Horticulture abroad— G. H. Van Houten. 174 
Horticulture In Missouri, future of— J. G. 

Kinder 202 

Horticulture In schools— G. B. Lamm 267 

Horticulture, seventy years In— Sam'l 

Miller 294 

Horticultural questions 318 

I 

Improvement In small fruits needed— E. 
P.Powell. 389 

Insects useful, and their products— Mary 
E Murtfeldt. 228 

Insects— J. M. Stedman 298 

Insect enemies, Increase of— B. T. Gallo- 
way, Washington, D. C 370 

Invitations to hold State meetings 251 

K 

Kittatlnny Blackberry— Jacob Faith 68 

Kelffer Pear and others— J. A. Durkes... 263 

L 

Lawn, how to make a— H. C. Irish 87 

Letters from — 

J. B. Wild &Bros 62 

Henry Schnell 69 

F. W. Taylor 103 

Z. Cupp 104 

Mrs. Wm. Rogers 104 

John P. Anderson 104 

John E . Carlett 104 

S.R.Hammond 104 

J. C. Whltten 104 

Miss M. E. Murtfeldt 135 

John W.Clark 214 

Local Hortlculural Societies— Mrs. A. L. 
Moore ...^ 146 

M 

Members, honorary 3 

Members, life 3 

Missouri hills for fruit growlng-L.Gelger 181 
Miscellaneous papers 343 

New Ideas In potato culture— L H. Reld, 
Wisconsin 288' 

o 

Officers for 1897 3 

Officers elected for 1898 225 

Orcharding— L. xV Goodman 117 

Orchards, first six years of— D. A. Rob- 

nett 163 

Orchards in Northeast Missouri— G. N. 

Ratllfl 190 

Orchard, the home— N. F. Murray .347 

Orchard work. Important winter— L. II. 

Pammel, Iowa 348 



Page 
Orchards, top grafting In commercial— 

W. M. Bomberger, Iowa 352 

Organization of .State society ... 5 

Organization of Locals 7 

Organization in marketing products— P. 

M. Kiely 403 

Ornamental trees— P. C. Myers 153 



Peach growing, profitable- F. H. Speak- 

man §3 

Peach pruning, the 363 

Peach growing 350 

Peaches , among the 362 

Peach culture, national experiments In 359 

Peach orchard, cost of developing a 360 

Peaches, plans for gathering, sorting, 

handling and packing— H. E. Moseley 197 
PeachesforCentralMlssourl— A. J. Davis 271 
Peaches, classification of variety— R. 

H. Price, Texas 364 

Peach trees, the planting of— F. Holsln- 

ger, Kansas.... 368 

Peaches, thinning of 368 

Peach yellows 373 

P^ach spraying 373 

Peach disease— H. E. VanDeman, Pa.... 374 

Pear blight to date— H. T. Fuller 84 

Pear trees, dwarf 384 

Pears, ripening of— J. Meehan, Pennsyl- 
vania 386 

Pear, Keiffer and others— J. A. Durkes.. 263 

Persimmon , seedless 104 

Persimmon, wild— C. Glover 384 

Phenological notes— H. 0. Irish 325 

Plant lice and their enemies— Mary E. 

Murtfeldt 135 

Plants, best bedding— E. H. Michel 149 

Plants, hardy herbaceous— J. A Durkes. 153 
Plant Russians cautiously— C. L Wat- 
rows , Iowa 353 

Plum orchards, care of— A. B. Dennis, 

Iowa 379 

Plums, seedling .380 

Plums, growing 381 

Plum, Wild Goose 381 

Plums, Japanese 383 

Plum orchard, commercial— G. L. Perry, 

Michigan 384 

Pollnation, studies In— J. C. Whltten 101 

Potato culture, new Ideas In— L. H. Reed, 

Wis 288 

Poems 345, 388 

Preserving fluid 104 

Pruning apple trees— E Reynolds, Wis.. 351 

Q 

Questions and suggestions— J. C. Evans. 254 

Questions, horticultural 318 

Quinces vs. peaches 387 

Quinces, growing 388 

R 

Raspberry cultivation— D. A. Turner ... 56 
Raspberries, fall bearing— J. Meehan, Pa. 401 

Raspberries, the fall planting of .398 

Raspberries, culture of 397 



INDEX. 



Ill 



Page 

I{ecl raspberry , the Miller Early H9H 

Response of welcome— N. F. Murray. .15, 162 
Reports- 
Distribution of trees 63 

Secretary 116,215 

Treasurer 125, 221 

Committee on Finance 126,253 

Committee on Final Resolutions 156 

County Societies 208, 213 

Committee on Flowers 258 

Sugar Beet 253 

Committee on Fruits 262, 311 

S 
San Jose scale In Missouri— Prof . J. M. 

Stedman 312 

San Jose scale and Its parasite 370 

Sap movement In plants— Prof. J. C 

Whitten 304 

Scale disease 371 

School of Horticulture— Emma J. Park. . 98 
School of Horticulture— L. A. Goodman 121 
Small fruits, gathering, packing, mar- 
keting— G. W. Hopkins 57 

Small fruits 389 

Some choice fruits for home culture- 
Mrs. H. V. Estill 301 

storage ; 129 

Strawberries- G. G. James 37 

Strawberries— G. T. Odor .39 

Strawberry, marketing the— J. W. Wal- 
lace, Minnesota 52 

Strawberry Industry at Sarcoxle— J. 

Carnahan 225 

Strawberry rust— L. R. Jones, Vermont 372 
Strawberry development, progress in... 390 



Page 
.Strawberry culture— (>. \V. Illackwall, 

N. C 391 

Strawberries, ten acres of 392 

Strawberry methods 39i 

Strawberry fruiting season, extending 

the— Chas. B. Cook, Mich 395 

Strawberries, when to plow up— B. A. 

Wood, Mich 397 

SubsolUng 408 

Summer meeting 14, 15S 

T 

Tuesday, June 8 u 

Tuesday, Dec. 7 161 

Thursday, June 10. 103 

Thursday , Dec . 9 250 

Temperature tables— H. C. Irish .329 



Variation In apples 346 

w 

Wasteful marketing— L. M. St. John, 

X. Y 405 

Wednesday, June 9 37 

Wednesday, Dec. 8 179 

AVlnter meeting 161, 339 

When will planting be overdone— F. Hol- 

slnger, Kans 343 

Why barreled apples keep 357 

Woolly aphis— Prof. J M. Stedman 19 



Year's work on fruit and vegetable farm- 
Henry Schnell 257 



New York Botanical Garden Library 



3 5185 00259 0527 



I 



