"The Committee on Apples and Pears submitting no report, the subject of Pears was discussed as follows:  G. W. Mellish —Pears are doing veiy well around De Fu- niak. Our greatest enemy is the blight; that is about the only serious enemy we have. Pears are certainly a profitable fruit, and are very easy to raise. The bitter blight is a well known disease and I have no new remedy to offer. The only remedy I know of is to cut off all the blighted limbs just as soon as they appear, and the more thoroughly and quickly they are cut off the better. I have seen a good many orchards that have been neglected and they keep getting worse and worse. Orchards have been preserved in the midst of other orchards that were badly diseased, simply by cutting off the limbs.  S. S. Harvey —I believe in the success of pear culture in* the State of Florida. I believe further, that at the present time it is the best paying crop as a permanent investment that pan be raised in this state. In my own neighborhood there has been no blight. We have never had any in m}^ county that I know of. I have a neighbor that has an orchard nearly £S large as mine, who came from California with the idea that       he could make more money in Florida than he could in Cali¬ fornia. He thinks that the opportunity we have to get fruit through to the markets in from two to four days gives us & great advantage over California, where it takes from five to twelve days to reach markets. I had a talk several times with him over the matter of blight. His impression is that we are free from the blight from the fact that we have agreatdeal of iron and sulphur in our soil. To the west of us sixty miles they have the blight but we do not have it. I am hnder the constant dread of its attacking us in the future. I am going to meet it, and with this idea I have investigated the blight where it has occurred In this state and in South Georgia. If a man will attend to his grove immediately after it is attacked and cut out that portion which is blighted and then use the Bordeaux Mixture, I believe his orchard will not be damaged,. I went through De Funiak last June and I looked at the groves, and where I found the blight I found the men had let it take its course. I fou-id good groves that had no blight, but they had been carefully attended to. Mr. Dubose has a grove of pear trees that was reported to have been attacked severely, although attended to promptly and sprayed with Bordeaux Mixture. I looked at his grove, and when we got within fifty yards of the orchard I said: “You have no blight”. There was no appearance of blight whatever. He said: “Wait a little.” We then proceeded to the orchard and found the ground covered all over with ends and points of limbs that he had cut off from those trees; but I found there was no blight on the trees and there was a good lot of fruit on them. From my experience and observation I have concluded that the blight can be controlled if handled properly. I have seen orchards that were nearly destroyed by it, both in this state and in South Georgia, but I have reached the conclusion that if the proper means are taken, using Bordeau Mixture and cutting off the limbs, the blight will not materially affect the success of pear growing, and this is the course I shall adopt if my orchard is attacked.  As to the cultivation of pears, I think the best trees to plant are one year old. I believe that the varieties most suited to us are the Le Conte and Keiffer. I do not believe in high fertilization. I believe the peach cannot be cultivated too rapidly; with the pear this is not the best plan. A small amount is sufficient to keep it active in growth, and that is all you want. Let it grow so that in eight or nine years it makes a good tree. I will give you the positive size of one of my trees. A few days ago I took the size exactly. It is one of the best trees on my place. It was set out in 1875. It is now thirty-one and a half feet high; I measured it with two    1ashing*poles. This is the exact measurement. I dropped a plumb opposite the outer limb and measured across the space and it measured twenty-nine feet. The circumference of the trunk was thirty-four and a half inches. I estimate that this tree will carry twenty-five barrels of fruit. Last year I had two trees that were so heavily laden with fruit that they split to the ground and fell flat. I have heretofore estimated that an orchard should average ten barrels of lrnit to the tree at ten years old. I have written some articles on the subject and I have always made that estimate. I believe now that it would be possible for a man to make a grove of Le Conte pears at ten years old average twentyfive barrels to the tree. That would be 1,750 barrels to the acre. I sold my crop last year in Chicago principally, while I shipped to Nashville, Cincinnati and St. Louis, but the larger portion went to Chi¬ cago, and my fruit netted me $1.02 per barrel. These are the possibilities. It is possible for a man to raise 1,500 barrels on an acre often year old trees. I have a nice grove, and it certainly has proved successful. Whether it will continue so or not is a question ot the future.  As to the quality of the Le Conte pear, two years aso I was in Chicago and I spent several days and nights on the fruit market there. I found at that time a great prejudice against the Le Conte pear. It had, prior to that time, gone mainly to the eastern cities; Philadelphia, Boston, Baltimore and New York. A very prominent commission naan in Chicago said to me that he did not think much of our Le Conte peats. I did not see or hear from him again until last spring, when I de¬ cided to ship his house my fruit. I sent him a carload to be¬ gin with, and after selling that carload he wrote me that he had revised his opinion of the Le Conte; that this carload had sold better than any other pears on the market and that he believed the Le Conte the best early market pear. The Le Contes brought more than the Bartlett at almost every sale; this was quite encouraging. With my experience and from what I have seen, I have reached the conclusion that there is no equal to the Le Conte for marketing.  Gr. P. Healy —I would like to hear from Col. Harvey as to his method of gathering the fruit.  Mr. Harvey —I use cheap ladders in gathering my pears. I have one fifteen feet high, one twenty feet high, and one twenty-eight feet, with others even higher. I put two ladders together at the top, tying them with three-fourths inch rope. This makes a step ladder of two single ladders. I put two men on the ladders and they go up in the trees. They carry with them a sack with straps over the shoulder, such as is commonly used in gathering oranges. These sacks are made     of ordinary gunny cloth; an oat sack will make four such picking sacks. 1 discovered after a little experimenting that it was a bad plan to let the ladders get over into the trees. The pickers have a stick with a hook on the end hanging upon the ladders, and to get the fruit at the ends of the long single limbs, they draw the limbs gently to them with these hooks. A man on the ground takes the sacks which the pickers let down and lays them down in a basket, pouring tliefn out by gently lifting the sack so as not to braise the Iruit. The wagon comes round through the orchard and carries the fruit to the packing house.  I put up my fruit in boxes of three sizes, large, small and medium. I papered a large portion last year. This was done by girls and women. I used a paper about the same that you would use to cover oranges with. I pack in the California boxes. I find that papering the fruit in a box of pears costs five cents. That includes labor and cost of paper. I put them in cars at my depot, piling them seven tiers deep. This is a little too much to put in an ordinary car. I would not ad¬ vise putting in more than 600 boxes. I packed most of mine 800 to the car. I laid the boxes in the car endwise, but I leave spaces between each tier ol about four inches. After I lay a tier I get strips and lay them across each tier. I so pile up to the top and ship in that way. I think it would be well for us to correspond with the railroad companies and request them to put better springs under their ventilator cars. By this means they would save us thousands of dollars worth of fruit in the season. The swinging of the cars is very hard on the fruit.  G. L. Taber —What is the weight of the material used in making your boxes ?  Mr. Harvey— It is very light material, weighing about two pounds to the box. It is still a question whether it pays to paper pears. It pays though, to ship in smaller packages. I would not ship my pears in barrels, although I have been re¬ quested by the commission men to do it. They do this for this reason: The retail dealers want it in barrels because they get more fruit at a given price. The same thing applies to pa¬ pering. The fruit dealer does not want it papered. If it is papered he gets forty pounds of fruit. If it is not papered he gets forty-nine pounds. The fruit goes in better condition when papered; the chances are lor better arrival. You must consider that you have to be out five cents for labor and paper with the chances of your fruit going to market in prime con¬ dition, against the disposition on the part of the retail dealers to get all the fruit they can for the smallest amount of money. Bruit packed in small packages, in a neat manner, beautifully     papered, will take the eye of the purchasers. They will say that they would not take so much pains unless the fruit were good. On the other hand, if the fruit is packed in barrels and shipped to the northern market, it is more likely to arrive in bad condition. I would not ship my pears in barrels if I knew they would bring me as much with less trouble. I have a sentiment in regard to it. I do not want to see my fruitgo that-way to the market. I am looking to the future, and I do not believe that is the way to build up and hold a fancy trade.  W. H. H. Holdridge —What does the railroad charge for the weight on the box ?  Mr. Harvey —I do not pay by the box, but by the hundred pounds. Here is an account of sales that I have had in my pocket for the purpose of showing the railroad people. This is a carload of 812 boxes of pears shipped to Chicago. The freight was $250.55. As you will see, that is just about twenty-five cents per box. This I think too much. This car¬ load sold for $1,096.65. I had cars containing as much as. this go to Chicago for $165.  T. J. Stubbs —I would like to make a suggestion in connec¬ tion with Mr. Harvey’s statements. He advocated Bordeaux Mixture for pear blight, but I would advocate a trial of sul¬ phate of iron instead of sulphate of copper. We have experi mented with that kind of mixture, and apparently received a great deal of benefit. We expect to continue with it, and I would like to have other trials of the same thing. I would ask that a trial be made with the sulphate of iron instead of sulphate of copper.  Prof. P. If. Bolfs —From the careful experimenting that has been going on in Fiance, and by the Department of Agricul¬ ture, the conclusion has been reached that the Bordeaux Mix¬ ture is the proper thing and not the sulphate of iron; that the copper compound is much more efficacious th>ui the iron sul¬ phate. It is much preferable. I think it has been used to a considerable extent and been tested by a great many persons, ao we can no longer be divided as to that and as to the treat¬ ment of the pear blight. The limbs that are cut off should be taken from the orchaid in*tead of being left there. There is a liability for insects to fly to those limbs on the ground and carry the bacteria to the tree again, and the wind would be li¬ able to do the same thing. It would be well to be careful that those blighted limbs are destroyed quickly. In regard to pear blight in West Florida, specimens of infected trees have been sent me from West Florida. I think what Mr. Harvey has suggested in regard to the blight should be rigidly car¬ ried out, and the disease should be carefully watched to pre¬ vent its development in districts not now affected."
