"In preparing my Report on Grapes I endeavored to find out the best grapes for this state, so I wrote out a number of questions and sent them to members of our society in differ¬ ent sections of the state. Most of them furnished a prompb reply, showing that they were interested in the success of our society. 1 find that the Niagara, Delaware and Ives are the best adapted as market grapes for this state, as they stand ship¬ ping well and bring good prices and are a sure crop. I would advise all new beginners to plant these and not waste their money on putting out too many varieties, but confine them¬ selves to the above. I would recommend the following fertilizers: Ground bone, sulphate of potash and cotton seed meal. Use one-half to three-fourths ton per acre of the mixture. The vines require nitrogen, and this I would give in two applications, one in January, the other the last of May. I sent out the following question: “Are your vines free of disease?” and most of them replied “yes,” while others replied that they were troubled with mildew and that it could be prevented by spraying. I would recommend spraying with Bordeaux mixture. Most of them report that they received good prices, while others complain of the commission men getting away with them. I would recommend them not to ship to any one unless they know he is honest and makes true returns. Put your grapes up in nice little baskets four to the crate, anci they will sell, while those put up in boxes are a drug on the market. Although this fruit may be good it is in no shape to sell. A person will come along and see one of those nice i baskets and it takes his fancy; whereas if he has to wait to have them weighed he won’t have them. The four baskets and crate will cost you about 16 cents, and will net you double. I do not claim that every kind of grape will succeed here, but as many as in any other section. When you make up your mind to start a vineyard, select a dry place. If not dry it should be made so by drainage. If it is new land rid the ground of all roots and do not allow any piles of brush to decay to feed insects, t ut burn them and scatter the ashes on the ground. Plow the ground deep and harrow it well. When your ground is ready run your rows ten feet apart, from north to south, if possible. Plant your vines ten feet apart. Dig your holes two feet square by eighteen inches to two feet deep. Select varieties that will ripen well here. Get good strong 2-year-old vines and see that they have roots on all sides and were not propagaged from layers. If so the roots will be all on one side. When planted upright the side on which no roots are formed begins to rot and this gradually extends up the vine and ihe unnourished side until in three or four years the novice finds he has a vine about at the end of its career, and wonders at his misfortune. This is one cause of so many failures. We can raise as large and fine grapes as they can north of the same kind. The Delaware grows to perfection, and for a table grape it has no equal. . The Niagara is a showy grape and sells well. The Ives is a good shipper and sells well. Pruning is of vital importance for the production of good fruit. Some claim that it should be done in the last of No¬ vember or first of December. I cannot agree with them. I would not prune until the buds begin to swell, then you can see all dead and deficient wood and remove it. I have pruned late for the last three years and have had a full crop. The late freeze did me but little damage ; my grapes were not far enough out to be hurt and are fruiting nicely. Ac¬ cording to reports, in West Florida those that were out and were killed are setting new fruit and will make a fair crop, but a little late. I am unable to say what damage was done in the eastern and middle part of the state. It is impossible to lay down any set rule for pruning. Different grapes require different pruning. I would recom¬ mend the renewal system. Grapes need cvltivation, and unless you can give it you need not expect to have fine grapes. Cultivate at least once every fifteen days until the middle of June, and with new vines until the middle of September."
