"Mr. Geo. H. Wright —I wish to state that Mr. H. P. Hand, of Daytona, was the third member of this Committee on Grapes. Mr. Stewart wrote me that he was an amateur in grape growing I replied that it was the amateur, as a rule, that brought out new thoughts and new ideas, not only in grape growing but in all planting. I regret that Mr. Stewart is not here. Mr. H. S. Williams —The paper read by Mr. Wright does not show a very glowing future for grapes in South Florida. I should like to hear from Mr. Mellish on this subject. Mr. G. W. Mellish— I do not know that I have anything new to offer. I presume we have some advantages in West Florida over South Florida growers. We are within twenty-four hours of Cincinnati and thirty-six of Chicago, and our Niag¬ ara grapes have been shipped to both points without any re¬ port of bad condition when received. We grow our grapes, at least most of us, on high sandy soil, thoroughly well drained, naturally. One small vineyard was planted in our section on soil where the clay was within possibly a foot of the surface and in going by the vineyard one evening the owner called me and shook the grape vine, causing the grapes to fall to the ground. I told him to come up to my place and see my grapes. He did come and I took him out to the vine¬ yard and shook the vines, but they did not fall. I do not know the reason of it except that it may have been caused by the wet weather and poorly drained soil. I had used potash and that may have had something to do with it, but I do not know. I certainly should not expect profitable returns from grapes grown on heavy soil, unless thoroughly drained. The water must work off above the clay, and if it cannot get off soon enough the ground becomes so saturated with water that the grapes drop from the stem and those that remain are not of good quality. Grapes should be planted on high soil. On my place I have found no foundation except sand. Our ex¬ press rates are probably not so exhorbitant as in South Flor¬ ida. They are high enough, but our returns bring us a profit, as much, perhaps, as is derived from any line of fruit grow¬ ing, all hough grape growing requires more attention than peach growing in our vicinity. I have always had an idea tint the trouble in Sou h Florida was that the grapes were planted in ground not well enough drained. Mr. W. A. Cooper —I would like to ask Mr. Wright to ex¬ plain about the earload of grapes he went to Chicago will from Orlando, and ab ut the condition the grapes were in that came from St. Augustine at about the same time. I read in a paper published at Avon Park about the grapes raised round St. Augustine and Moultrie, and how very profitable they are. I would like to have Mr. Wright say in what condition he found them. Mr. Wright— I do not like the idea of criticising the bus¬ iness methods of any one, especially of those in a business that is parallel with my own ; yet, in answering the gentle¬ man’s question I will be obliged to do it. These glowing statements are not confined to the paper to which Captain Cooper refers. Only last week one of our evening papers criticised the knowledge of the growers of Orange county and spoke very highly of the experience of those in St. Johns county. (Mr. Wright is from Orange county.) I think it was on the 29th of last June I left Orlando with a car load of grapes for Chicago. The car was iced the day we loaded in Orlando and went out the same night. At Bald¬ win it laid over twelve hours and was five days on the road. One of the ventilators of the car was open. On the morning of the 5th of July I opened the car and put the grapes on the market, and fixed the price at which they should be sold. I sold about 100 crates that day at at an average of $2.50 to $5 per crate of 24 and 40 pounds. That night a car load came in lrom Moultrie by express, containing between 100 and 200 crates. These were put up at auction and sold at an average of $1.20 to $1.40 a crate. They were not as fine grapes as ours. There were no covers on the baskets below the top tier, and the baskets were not quite full. Of course this cut prices, but only a little. The next evening there was another car load and the following evening another. The prices of those grapes run down to 40 to 60 cents. I didn’t sell a crate of our grapes for less than' $1.20. The difference in the condition in which they arrived was due more to the method of shipping than anything else. We have had discussions at various times in our society in regard to leaving some circulation of air in the car. I ob¬ jected to it, thinking it would be damaging to the grapes. In the carload I went to Chicago with the grapes in the end of the car in which the ventillator was open were not as good as those in another part of the car. In regard to the failure of some of the vineyards in Or¬ ange county and in South Florida, (and I want to say right here that I grew grapes thirty years ago in New York, I have seen gr ipes growing in Missouri, Colorado and Califor¬ nia, and I have seen grapes growing on the Rhine, in different localities, and I think I know something about grape growing.) I believe the failure to day to grow grapes profitably, lies in the plan by which we are forced to get them to market. I know of one vineyard of 110 acres, all Niagaras, of which the owners are very sanguine of successful returns, but they are making arrangements for refrigerator service to market their crops. In the first place, we must cool down the car before putting grapes in. They must lie in refrigeration twenty-four hours before they are loaded. By that means we get the grapes all cooled through before they move, and then if they can go right through in the express trains, or if fast freight service can be secured, I venture to say that grape growing in South Florida can be made as profitable and as remunerative as in any other portion of the state. As a rule we must plant our grapes, especially the Niagara,, on higher ground. I have gone into nearly every vineyard in Orange county with a view of seeing what could be done with grape growing in South Florida, and I say in the paper I have read it is the method in which they are put into the market that causes the unprofitableness of the undertaking. The grapes are put into hot exprtss cars, piled in indiscriminately, and some growers only half pack them, taking no pains, and of cousse they do not get through in good condition. Our grapes went through to Chicago in better condition than any T saw from other points. I went to the auction and examined the grapes, and those from other points did not come up to the standard of ours. I also saw in Chicago some grapes from about Tallahassee that went into Chicago in very poor condi¬ tion indeed, although twenty-four hours nearer that market than we are. Anyone who will take a carload of grapes and run them through to Chicago, New York, Baltimore or Bos¬ ton on the plan that I have outlined, will find they will be im perfect condition on arrival at their destination. I have had some correspondence with, a gentleman hand¬ ling strawberries about Gainesville. He has a patent of his own get up in a cold storage box that he puts in a car—a com¬ mon freight car ; he lets his car remain and cool twenty-four hours. After cooling it perfectly and thoroughly he puts in his fruit and it goes to New York and the Northern markets in perfect condition. He said he handled grapes in the same way and had no difficulty whatever. From my observation on my trip to Chicago last June, from what I have seen of grape marketing in other ways, and from experience of our method of shipping for two years now in express cars, I have come to the conclusion that this is the difficulty and about the only one. Grapes in our hot climate ripen when the weather is hot and moist, and we must have some means of cooling the grapes down before they are started in transit, else they‘will rot on the way. I d^ not believe to-day that there is an investment that a man can go into, if he under¬ stands the business, which would be more paying than grape growing, if the right kind of transportation can be obtained to put the grapes in the Northern markets. We could not get refrigerator cars for love or m mey; at least, that has been the experience of the past. We must have a fast, reli¬ able refrigerator service or make our grapes into wine. Mr. G. P. Healy —I would like to ask a question. Do you find that you get remunerative prices for the grapes that go through in g >od order ? Mr. Wright —Yes, sir; this has been my experience and it cannot be otherwise. If the grapes reach the markets in good condition you will get good prices. I want to say one thing. I do not ship white grapes to Chicago. You can send them to Philadelphia, New York or Boston and get good prices. I have had my 7 grapes bring me thirty cents a pound in New York and Loston. Mr. Healy —I would like to ask if that was last year. Mr. Wright —Last year I got twenty-two cents for the first shipments that went through and they were not thoroughly ripe. Mr. Healy—I would like to ask Mr. Wright if it is a fact that all of the grapes of South Florida that went into the Northern markets in good condition sold at paying prices. Mr. Wright— As far as I know they did. Mr. Healy —What were the prices ? Mr. Wright —Eight to ten cents per pound. I can grow grapes in Florida as cheap as I can in New York state. Mr. Healy —I sent my grapes to the Northern markets. They went through in good order ; I did not have any re¬ ported in bad order. They went there in good time and they 3 o Zi did not go through the Grape Growers’ association, and I got what would be considered for an orange grower about three and a half cents a box. I do not think they paid over that. You pay the express company four cents and you pay four cents for cultivation, packing, etc., and then sell for ten cents a pound. I cann*»t for the life of me see where the profit comes in. 1 failed to find a dollar in it. I agree with Mr. Mellish that the grapes on the high lands are the grapes that will stay on the stems. If an 3 r man is paying four cents a pound to transport his grapes, and four cents more to have them picked, and carried to his packing house and taken on board the car, he can do more than I can if he makes any¬ thing out of the grapes. At these prices I do not believe he can do it. This great hue and cry they are raising at St. Augustine about grapes is misleading. It is going to carry people into the business and they are going to get hurt when they go into that business. I got hurt, and got hurt badly, and a surgical operation could not put me on my feet. I met Mr. Terry at St. Augustine; he then had sent off two carloads and had one at the depot. They were badly packed. They were not as good as the South Florida grapes. He had not received any returns, but that night, at the hotel, he received a telegram stating that they had been received in bad order, and he stopped shipping. He is now going int > making wine. Now, the objection I make to all this is that we are rgoing to lead some poor fellow into this business to put his last dollar where I put mine. Look at the ridiculous posi¬ tion ! To invite the horticulturists of Florida to go into the grape growing business ! It is a mistake to induce the horticulturists of Florida to go into something out of which they will not get a dollar. The institution at Lockport (Niagara Grape Company) got all the loose change I had, and I do not want anybody else to go the rond that I have gone. Look at my vineyard and look at my bank account. Mr. Cooper — I was crippled a little in the grape business. I swallowed a bait on the grape question. I got Col. Bailey to look at my ground. He said it was a splendid place for grapes. I put out about eight acres. Last year I shipped some grapes and my profit was two 2-cent stamps. I have framed those stamps and have them hanging in my office. I have plowed all my grape vines up. I tried to give the vines away but nobody would take them. For goodness sake never say grapes to me again. Mr. Healy—T he matter of associations has come to my m nd. Where I marketed most of my grapes I was obliged to ship to an association house. I was guaranteed 8 percent, commission, but was charged 12 per cent. If I had been •charged 10 per cent. I would have had 2 per cent. left. I had taken so much medicine I thought I could take some more. I am just as much opposed to associations as I am to grape growing. Mr. Mott — I would like to ask Mr. Cooper if he ever raised a bunch of grapes in his vineyard all the berries of which were good enough to eat. Mr. Cooper —Certainly, I have, especially on that portion of my place called the “Camden Plac j .” I have raised as fine grapes there as you - ever saw. The vines are very vigor¬ ous. Mr. Mott —I have thought we could raise good grapes in Florida, and I think so yet, but we have got to import the man to raise them. The men who have been raising grapes around Orlando cannot do it. They have picked out the land that has been under water; land that it was never intended should be planted with grapes. They have cleared out the swamps and planted, and I am not surprised at the failures we have heard of and are hearing of. They planted grapes on land that nothing else would grow on. A gentleman at Haines City by the name of Dodson has four acres in grapes and he told me that his grapes were perfect last year, and that he shipped them and got good prices for them, and that they were all gone before he began to ship from around Orlando. Mr. Wright— I think you will admit that I have not made a very flowery report to-night. I did not propose to make one that would lead people into the crape-growing business until they knew what thay wanted. It is a fact that the finest grapes I have ever seen growing east of the Rocky Mountains were those I have seen grown in South Florida. There were a great many men who grew grapes around Orlando a few years ago who did not understand the proper mode of spraying the grapes and the result was mildew got away with a good many of them. I have used a mixture I consider quite efficient. Making and applying this mixture is a nice job. You put the sulphate of copper on the lime after it is all dis-olved, and you ruin it, but if you put the lime on the copper it is all right. You have to use the mixture as a preventive, not as a cure, and then you can make as per¬ fect grapes in South Florida as you can in Missouri, in New York or anywhere. I have not made a favorable report, but at the same time I do not want to say that there is any diffi¬ culty in growing first class grapes in South Florida, but the main trouble is in getting them to market. You want to get them there in first-class condition, and the returns will be satisfactory. When the question of transportation is solved SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OP THE everything is all right, as far as I can see. I can then grow grapes and make money out of them. I do not advise any man to go into grape growing unless he has circumstances, varieties, soils, etc., in his favor. Lyman Phelps —About sixteen years ago, after having been brought up in the grape region of Central New York, I undertook to grow grapes in Orange county. I tried it about four years in a small way. I spent a thousand dollars and received nothing for my efforts. I got nothing back. W. H. Mann —I gathered a box of white grapes last year in July, and kept those grapes for two weeks and they kept good and sound. I think something might be made out of grape growing in South Florida. R. W. Pierce —Where can grapes be grown if not in Florida? I was in California last year and I saw the China¬ men there taking the vines through the streets for fire wood. This did not seem to me to prove that grapes were so very profitable there. Replying to a number of questions, Mr. Wright said: As fine grapes as I ever saw in my life, and I have seen a great many, I have grown in South Florida. I use a fertilizer with plenty of ammonia, some phosphoric acid and a little potash, one-half pound to the vine, annually. Forty pounds of grapes to the vine a little over three years old is what I have pro¬ duced in my vineyard. In South Florida the vineyards are worked with clean culture up to June 1st. I believe that on most of our flat lands in South Florida the Niagara will be short-lived. I have a row of the Duchess, and they are very productive. There are several objections to this variety. One is they are too productive. You have to thin them out or reduce the quantity by short pruning. Again, as they begin to ripen they begin to shed. The Cyn- thiana, Herbemont and Norton’s Virginia all do well enough on high land. The Herbemont and Cynthiana succeed better in South Florida than they do in the Tallahassee region, and there is no reason why these grapes should not be grown profitably if, as I said, the proper means of transportation can be secured. I want to say a word in regard to a gentleman who is grow¬ ing grapes near Winter Park. He has foreign varieties as- well as American varieties, but he believes as I do that he will have to put the white grapes into wine."
