"James Mott—A good many of the fertilizers used in this: state are frauds. I have seen orange groves that looked to me as though they would have been better off without it. I have a friend in Polk county; not long since I was there and 118 tie told me that he put about thirty-five tons on seventy-five acres, and not getting the results from the fertilizer that he expected, he sent a sample to the state chemist and got his analysis. I copied the analysis the state chemist sent him; I also copied the analysis that they reported to be on the bag. From that same manufactory there was a sample sent to another chemist, as also samples of potash ; I have the analy¬ sis of them all. Here is one that was attached to the bag : Moisture, 79 per cent.; phosphoric acid, 9 to 14 per cent.; available phosphoric acid, 7 to 9 per cent.; ammonia, 5 to 8 per cent.; potash, 7 to 10 per cent. The state chemist’s analy¬ sis showed that the moisture was 140; insoluble phosphoric acid, 2.56; potash (K 2 0) 4 to 8. The potash was sold at $23.37 per ton at Savannah; the chemist told me he did not weigh the salt in it, but he estimated it was 13 per cent. The card on the nitrate of soda indicated 48 per cent.; it ana¬ lyzed 43 per cent. H. W. O. Margary —It seems to me that this question of fertilizers is of interest to all. There is one thing we -should take into consideration; that is, the question of soil. We have many different soils in Florida. We try to grow oranges on a soil in which some element is lacking; then we blame the fertilizer if the fruit is not satisfactory. Is it right for us to attribute the growth, or rather want of growth, to the fertilizers? I think the fault lies in a lack of knowledge of agricultural chemistry on the part of the grower. Why not appoint a committee of agricultural chemistry to study up the subject and give to members the benefit of their investigations, setting forth the needs of different soils at different times? We take a grove and put one kind of fertilizer on it one year and it does very well that year and we get a large crop; perhaps the same fertilizer is put on again and there is then no growth and >no fruit. Why is this? I am piling on fertilizer and there are no good results. We should examine the soil as well as the fertilizer. A year ago I took a few navel trees and gave them each twenty pounds of lime. The fruit is holding well now, but I do not know what the result will be. This was only an experiment. I say again that the question of soil should enter largely into the consideration of fertilizers. A. T. Cuzner —I was very much interested in the paper read by Mr. Painter. He doubtless knew what he was talking about, but I have not the least doubt that the majority of .persons present did not understand, when he got his charts -out, what he tried so hard to explain, viz : The nature and ^essentials of a perfect fertilizer. .The subject of fertilizers is a very obscure one to the 119 average farmer, for the reason that the average farmer is a novice in agricultural chemistry. Now while it is not absolutely necessary that the farmer or fruit grower should have much knowledge ol chemistry in order to raise good crops, still a knowledge of the chemistry of agriculture is of great advantage to him. He is continually hearing or reading of different fertilizing materials as containing so much phosphate, so much potash, so much ammonia, lime, etc., and doubtless queries to himself: What is potash, ammonia, etc., and what purpose do they fill in plant life? The life principle of both animal and vegetable existence is dependent upon phosphate. When orange fruit is analized we find that it contains no phosphate except in the seed. It is required there because the seed is the reproductive result of the plant growth. In orange culture, for instance, such varie¬ ties as the Satsuma, which does not produce many seeds, ex¬ perience will show, require less phosphate than other members of the citrus family. Again as to potash, what proportional amount is required by the soil for perfect p!aut growth, and what function will it fill in the economy of plant life? In regard to the amount of potash required, it varies with the condition of the soil. Some soils have a large percentage of potash in them. To say that all soils require a certain per¬ centage of potash is very incorrect. Analysis of fruit and tree show that they contain much less potash than is indicated by the amount required in the soil. Potash, by its presence and the chemical changes it produces in the soil and the plant, is indispensable to perfect plant life. Potash is for the pur¬ pose, therefore, of enabling the fruit to mature itself—its body structure—so to speak; its trunk, leaves, etc. All these re¬ ceive nourishment by means of the potash. It has a chemical action whereby the different materials are changed from one condition to another to suit the fruit. Potash is a vehicle. It is a means to an end, and has very little manural value as a fertilizer, as we understand manure, but it does just what gastric juice does in animal life. When man takes food into his stomach, the gastric juice comes in contact with it and enables the substance taken into the body to be digested and assimilated, and separates the different parts, each particular part to its particular end. Potash has largely the same effect in the vegetable economy as the gastric juice has in the ani¬ mal economy, only more varied, and a soil that is not well supplied with potash will not produce good vegetable growth. .In all fruit, with but few exceptions, phosphate is for the pur¬ pose of reproducing the individual plant. No fruit can have seed with phosphate. Phosphate has also a stimula¬ ting effect on plant life. 120 In regard to lime: There is a great many soils round where I live and the orange grows there most magnificently. In our shell hammocks you dig through the ground and it is like digging in some of the mountainous valleys of New York; there there are more stone than soil, with us more shells than soil; yet we get good oranges from these shell lands, and I think it is largely due to the lime. There is a good deal of phosphate in oyster shells as well as lime. We should tails into cceioideration the different uses of these different materials. Phosphate is for the purpose of enabling the vegetable to reproduce itself. Ammonia is nothing but nitrogen. Ammonia is the form of nitrogen that is most valuable in plant life. The air is full of nitrogen and we can get largely of ammonia from the atmosphere, but plant life needs assistance to get this nitrogen. If every grower would devote a little more time and study to the elementary princi¬ ples of agricultural chemistry, we would not be so much at the mercy of the fertilizer dealers, or at such a loss when and how to fertilize. G. P. Healy —Mr. Lyman Phelps has told us again and again just what this gentleman is telling us. The orange grower is supposed to pay double for everything he gets, and that is all there is to it; he wants fertilizer and he pays for it, A fertilizer man with a box of “two-fors” in his pocket can take in the Florida orange grower, and the man that is not an orange grower can sell him fertilizer and make him think he gets the best thing in the world. He does it every day, does it all the time. I can convince any man that no fertilizer factory in the United States can mix a ton of fertilizer on the floor with a shovel better than I can. A negro will mix a ton an hour and work ten hours a day and it is just as good fer¬ tilizer as furnished by the fertilizer companies. This is no question of speculation. The agricultural stations in the United States and in foreign countries are telling the producer that he can manufacture his own fetilizer at from $20 to $25 a ton and obtain an article that will analyze as high as any fertilizer that he can buy. After buying the material you can mix it for 10 cents a ton. It seems to me that the vital question of fertilization to-day is fertilization by indication. When the orange grower gets so that he can go into his grove and say whether it needs potash, ammonia or phosphoric acid, when he finds out what it does need, he has saved one-third to two-thirds of his money, Mr. President, it seems to me that the question of fertilization by indication is one that should be carried a great way and should be better understood. When it gets to the point. 12] where every man is his own tree doctor, or there are tree doc- tors who can tell a man what his grove needs, then we will get the science of fertilization down to where it ought to be. It is a great mistake to assume that all lands should be fer¬ tilized alike. We have lands that will by no means bear so- called complete fertilizers. Our insects and our diseases can almost all of them be traced to the use of fertilizers. This is the side of the question I would like to have brought out in this Society. We are all making mistakes, but when the time comes that man can go out into his grove and say whether it needs potash or not, and when he knows that it needs potash, will he go and buy ammonia to get the potash ? I believe some would, especially if the fertilizer agent with the box of “two-fors” came along. J. E. Fuller —I think when we get home we will know what not to do. But some of us younger members would like to know what to do. We would like to hear of the successes as well as of the failures. I know we have not been doing the right thing. We want to know what is right. We would like to know the results you have obtained in the fertilization of pine lands. We would like a chapter of practical ex¬ perience. We came here to learn how to fertilize properly. A. H. Carey —I want to correct one idea that seems to pre¬ vail; that is, that all fertilizer dealers are frauds. It is also a supposition that there is a great profit made in fertilizers. I manufacture fertilizers and liye in Orlando and I will guar¬ antee to furnish any man with any grade of fertilizer that he may name it he will pay for the material laid down in Orlando the exact cost and will give me $5 per ton for my trouble. If a man buys a low grade of fertilizer and pays a high grade price for it, then he is undoubtedly paying $10 or $12 too much; but if a man buys a high grade fertilizer made from high grade material and pays high grade prices, then the dealer cannot get in $10 or $12 profit. A. G. Avery —Nearly everything so far that has been said has been on chemical fertilizers. Nothing has been said about cotton seed meal. I think cotton seed meal should rank among the best fertilizers we have and practical men I have talked with agree with me in this. I came here nine years ago and became interested in the cultivation of citrus fruit,, and from the best information 1 can get, cotton seed meal has given the best results. Mr. Phelps —The gentleman third last speaking told us about the seed being the reproductive factor of the orange. He should have gone further and told us what an orange is and the necessity of having a perfect bloom in order to have 122 perfect fruit, and what elements were to produce that bloom; he should have gone on and told us the effects of oxygen in the atmosphere and what it is that makes the seed produce it¬ self, and I deny that it is phosphoric acid. If we are going to have elementary instruction we can go and buy a book for 50 cents to cover all these points. John W. Harding — I would like to ask for information, of Mr. Phelps, who seems to be quite versed in the chem¬ istry of fertilizers. Mr. Phelps —I asked the gentleman third last speaking to answer certain questions in reference to the elementary fruit. I would like to hear from him. Mr. Cuzner —Mr. Phelps asks such a comprehensive ques¬ tion and one that requires such a comprehensive answer, that I beg to be excused. He wants me to make an answer as to what chemicals and what amount it requires to make an orange tree bloom, whether phosphoric acid, soda, potash or ammonia, and I am sorry to say I am not in a position to answer. I cannot tell him how much pot¬ ash to use to make a good bloom. There are a good many things that enter into such a question as Mr. Phelps asks me to answer and I am sorry to say I cannot answer. Mr. Harding —How my question is this: Whether there are not certain processes of nature which cannot be under¬ stood and cannot be analyzed by any knowledge. I have been in Jaffa and seen the Jaffa oranges and I suppose the Jaffa buds were brought over here and put in your orange trees and you have the Jaffa orange, but our Jaffa orange is different from the Jaffa orange. You have improved upon it. Will Mr. Phelp« tell me if he can indicate by analysis of the grape what soil produced the grape? Can your chem¬ istry explain those wonderful processes of nature by which one grape growing in the same vineyard will be entirelv dif¬ ferent from another growing within a few yards of it ? Mr. Phelps —I will answer that question by asking another. Can the gentleman tell me why two children, born of the same parents, living in the same house, eating at the same table, are so different in disposition, in taste, in character ? The best chemists are my trees. I believe to-day that there has been more progress in chemistry in the last five years of benefit to such bodies as this than was made in previous years. Mr. Avery —The chemistry of agriculture is very different In various localities, especially in California and in Florida. We know that the chemicals we are using are expected to 12a produce certain results, but the results depend upon the soil^ the season and the rain they have. D. Greenleaf —A request was made a short time ago by a gensleman that the members of the Society give some per¬ sonal experiences and while these discussions in regard to chemistry are all very well, to the great majority of us they are a little obscure. About seven years ago I put in a very large irrigating plant; I got good results from that; at the same time I sent on and got a few tons of land plaster; I found that it was very beneficial, that grass sprang up and while there is very little plant food in land plaster, I thought the result justified me in sending for a large amount. I was interested in the phosphate discovery. I sent on and got fifteen tons of the Florida phosphate just as it was taken from the ground; the first that I put on had not been ground and in sixty days the effect was marvelous. The trees made a large, vigorous growth and parties who had been through the state said they had not seen anything like it. The results have been mainly success¬ ful in my experiments with this phosphate. For five years I have applied nothing else and to-day my grove is as vigorous and as fine as I could ask for, and I think we have right here in the state as good a plant for food as there is in the world and that as a rule it is the best thing that can be put on an orange tree. My fruit has brought the highest prices in the Northern markets. I merely give this as information. The front of my grove is clear hammock, but where I made the first application was light saud and about twenty feet above the level of the water. Part of it is in scrub. The phosphate I used is called soit phosphate. Others have used it with very marked effect. J. W. Russell —I think we are on the right move; that is, to give our personal experience. My process is to open up. furrows, put in stable manure and cover it up immediately. On part of my land I put commercial fertilisers. The stable manure has done the work. We have got to use something that will pay us better than manufactured fertilizers. Some gentleman has been running down stable manure. We have worn out the country by the use of manufactured fertilizers.. I say that stable manure and our own fertilizers that we can get in Florida are the best. John E. Stillman—I have been traveling over this state for three years selling fertilizers. I have found people who have- condemned every brand of fertilizer. Some maintained that, ground corn meal was the best fertilizer; some, that stable- manure was the best; some claimed that sawdust was the best s „ 124 and I think a good many of the growers have the impression that all fertilizers are bad. But we cannot ignore the valua¬ ble results obtained from chemical fertilizers, and the impor¬ tant part they have played in our recent horticultural develop¬ ment; to do so wonld be to take a step backward; if we were to do this we might as well stop holding horticultural meet¬ ings. Mr. Healy —I have known the gentleman last speaking for a number of years—ever since he was a little fellow He was a good sort of a boy, and always was so until he went into the fertilizer business. Before he went into that business I met him quite often, and we used to exchange cigars and whiskey. After that he only gave me one cigar and a drink once. I did not want any more. I do not know what kind of whiskey he carries now, as he does not sell me any more fertilizers. H. B. Stevens —I have been to quite a considerable expense in getting out muck and applying it direct from the lake, and no one who has been through my grove will admit that it is a good fertilizer. I applied muck two years ago but have not done so since. A. D. Moore —I believe this is turning into an experience meeting. I am interested a little in oranges; I also plant a good many vegetables. I use chemical fertilizers, and I have neighbors that use them. I have one neighbor who thinks he can afford to haul phosphate twelve miles from the mines. I tried to save stable manure myself; my stables are full of it now, and I thought perhaps I could find something to do with it. I have about come to the conclusion to throw it out in the field and let it rot. In connection with &he use of chemical fertilizers: A good many parties burn off their land. I break my land with a two-horse plow, as deep as the stock can pull it. I put chemical fertilizer on in the spring. I have made some money out of my crops. Mr. Margery —Each man’s land requires fertilizers accord¬ ing to its needs. Whenever we find an orange growing near a manure heap we find the tree scaly. S. S. Harvey —I think the most important question this so¬ ciety can investigate and discuss, is the question of fertilizers. I have an opinion on this subject formed from experience, that I wish to call attention to. You can take a piece of our Florida land, plant out a grove, feed it with the best commercial fer¬ tilizers, continue to do so until the trees come into bearing, and you may have the finest fruit; but continue this same treatment for a number of years; continue to give it the best of commercial fertilizers in any quantity you see fit, and your trees will fail and your fruit become worthless. There is an 125 element of plant food that you cannot analyze, that is neces¬ sary to the tree and fruit. I do not object to the use of com¬ mercial fertilizers; I advise the use of them, but not exclu¬ sively. I have some of the very best fruit trees in the state, and I have used very little commercial fertilizer—maybe not as much as I should have used—but I am confident my trees are the better for the use of the fertilizer that came from the stables, and to my mind the man who talks about throwing away sta¬ ble manure, talks about throwing away his money. Per unit, there is no plant food so expensive as ammonia, and your sta w ble manure produces ammonia in very large quantities, and the man who throws it away or burns it, as 1 said before, throws away money. I am a believer in muck. I believe that it furnishes a plant food that you cannot purchase in commercial fertilizer. After your grove has been burnt out by the continued use of com¬ mercial fertilizer, give it a coat of muck, and you will find that it will produce a decided improvement. It is an experiment you will be well paid for. The man who depends exclusively on commercial featilizers, who makes up his mind nothing else will do, will get left. The man who has plenty of stable manure and uses it freely will improve his land and his grove, and will always be in luck. Mr. Moore —I think the last gentleman on the floor is cor¬ rect. We must have a mixture. I want to say one little thing about soft phosphate: I have had ten years’ experience on Florida pine lands. I tried soft phosphate (and I have not any to sell) and it is as good or better than other materials from which we get phosphoric acid. I put it on orange trees exclusively. Mr. Greenleaf has spoken about the value of soft phosphate for shell hammock land; this is about as good land as we have in Florida, and the soft phosphate should have earned a good recommendation there if anywhere, but it gives very satisiactory results with me on pine land. I had a tree standing very near a stable, and a neighbor said to me “That tree will die.” I told him I did not see why, and he replied that the stable manure would kill it, and that he was sur¬ prised that I did not know it, being as smart as I was. I wish all my trees would die like that one. It is growing beautifully. I have applied stable manure and muck several years with success. L. Montgomery —I use a great deal of stable manure. I keep more stock than most people in Florida. I keep fifteen head of horses. I use stable manure, and think it better than anything else in the fertilizing line. My manner of applying 126 ' stable manure is to put it on at any season of the year, and to- spread it broadcast between the rows of trees, say about six feet from the tree on each side, and cover the ground. About twice a year I put on this manure, and with it about half a ton of dissolved bone to the acre. I use this for the reason that I get out of it the sulphuric acid necessary. I do not think there is a grove better than mine in the whole country. For five or six years I have used only stable manure and dissolved bone. I use stable manure all the year. This fall we had a great deal of broom sedge put in my stable to be tramped up, anl I used this. Those are the fertilizers that we use. W. G. Peck —The gentleman made the remark that he used dissolved bone in order to get the sulphuric acid. This is an important question as regards orange culture, and I hope that during this meeting that point will be brought out.. Mr. Montgomery —In dissolved bone you get quite a good deal of sulphuric acid. In the dissolved bone, I believe that the proportion of sulphuric acid—ihat is, the amount of sul¬ phuric acid to the ton of dissolved bone, is 600 pounds. When your land has much vegetable fibre such as you get in stable manure, dissolved bone is better than anything else. Now, if you use a phosphate rock you do not get the sulphuric acid. I do not know whether it takes 600 pounds, less or more; about 800, I think. I should say that the sulphuric acid would be of the same value regardless of the substance it was mixed with. You get a better fertilizer out of bone than you do out of rock. I think that Mapes does not use any rock at all. I think he advertises this fact. I know that sulphuric acid is sulphuric acid regardless of the place you get it, and no mat¬ ter what you mix with it. I used the Charleston rock a good many years ago, and gave it up as not a good investment. I have used acid phosphate with cotton seed meal, but settled down to stable manure. Do not disturb your soil very much. You can cultivate an orange tree too much. I plow my grove over in November every year, put on a good coating of bone and manure and turn the soil over, run the cultivator over it, and then do not disturb until next year. Bermuda grass growing near small trees is not a good thing, and does not help the tree at all, but after they get bearing it does them- good. C. A. Bacon —I have a white man working for me. The other day I made a remark about stable manure which applied to cow manure. He said: “We do not call cow manure stable manure.” He seemed to consider horse and cow manure alto¬ gether different. Mr. Peck —I call stable manure horse manure altogether. 12^ We never use the cow’s manure. Stable manure comes from horses, and I find that the more I put it on the better the plants thrive. Mr. Healy— I would like to ask Mr. Montgomery what properties he proposed to get from stable manure by using acid. Mr. Montgomery —We do not expect to get any chemical fertilizing properties out of it. The stable manure, as known by everybody, has a great deal of ammonia, which is fixed by combining with the acid. Mr. Healy —I do not think stable manure has anv sucht %> value. The analysis of average manure, according to the rec¬ ord which is to be had at all the stations in the United States, places stable manure as practically worthless. There is nothing in the stable manure, by the analysis of all the agricultural stations in the United States and in Europe, that gives it a place as a fertilizer. I will admit that it contains ammonia, but that is all. There is no potash nor any phosphoric acid in stable manure; or rather, they tell us this scientifically. I have used stable manure, and the experience has been enough to teach me to let it alone. The question has been how to fix the ammonia in the stable manure. Some use land plaster. Lately there has been a move made in the way of trying mucks to fix ammonia; that is one of the best methods, and I suppose it is because of its cheapness. I do not think it makes any dif¬ ference how you apply your stable manure if you fix a large per cent, of the ammonia. If your land is lacking in potash or if it lacks phosphoric acid, you need not put stable ma¬ nure there with the idea that you are going to get any ben¬ efit. G. H. Wright —I do not believe that we have a fertilizer in Florida that is any more valuable than stable manure. I am using it, and have been for some time and find it sat¬ isfactory. The question is how to get stable manure. Otis Richardson—I rise to say a few words and ask a few questioits, perhaps, as a young grower. I have been some twelve years trying to raise oranges. I have used the nostrums of all kinds of doctors to make that grove what it is, but I do not get good results from it. What is the mat¬ ter ? The seedling trees are doing best. I want a tree doc¬ tor, and we want a medical institution to educate doctors and send them around to look at our trees and get the right rem¬ edy and apply it. I have lost faith in most things recom¬ mended, because they have failed me. Cotton seed meal started my trees finely, and I have used muck, cow droppings and stable manure. But the grove is not bearing satisfacto- 9 128 riiy. I have tried soft phosphate with no result whatever, and, of course, I did not continue it. Some of my neighbors living on better lands are cowpenning their groves. One man has a large flock of goats. He is cow-penning with goats. They are getting splendid crops of oranges while I am not. I have a few trees near a stable where I had mamure piled up year after year, and the trees are blooming every spring and look as though they were just starting out lor a hun¬ dred years. I have not got a cow tied to every tree. If I had I might get good results. I am satisfied that all the patent medicines for trees are altogether unequal to the task of giving us a good crop of fruit and trees that will last one hundred years I believe they are stimulants, and for a short time give good results. The trees want more humus; they want more plant food, and it seems to me that there is nothing better than the vegetation grown by the ground and milled by the cow. All these other things may be good as aids but we must fall back on stable manure. There is nothing we can carry to the ground that has as many ingredients as stable manure. If some gentleman will tell me what to put on my grove, I will listen to him, and will be glad to hear his opinion. O. P. Rooks —I have been very much interested in the remarks of the last speaker. I believe that succ< ss in fruit growing and in agriculture depends upon animal manure, and in all those sections where the most success is had in keeping up and improving lands, it is from that source. The gentleman asks for information as to how to make his trees bear. Two years ago I constructed a portable cow pen about eight by ten feet, with a gate leading into that pen. I took my cow at night and put her into that pen. I put the pen between the trees, and lor from two to three weeks I kept the cow in that pen. I started at the beginning of a row and went through the grove with the pen. The re¬ sults were marvelous. The biggest crop of oranges that were ever seen in that neighborhood were produced from those trees. That is the result of the cow-penuing process. The oranges were as good as any in the neighborhood, and I got fair prices. I have used chemical fertilizers until I am almost “broke.” I shall use the cow pens in future. T. K. Godbey —I wish to relate how I raise my oranges. I am a practical man. I am my own tree doctor. I think I know what the matter is with a tree when it looks badly. I have here specimen oranges which I wish to present to the society. The trees on which they were grown are thir¬ teen years of age. They never had a spoonful of chemical fertilizers. They have been raised entirely on stable manure, 129 except that the chickens roost in the trees. The oranges I have here were not selected; simply taken as they came. My object was to see if I could preserve oranges, and I jput some away, and when the time came I opened them, and they looked pretty well, and I want to show you that •oranges can be grown with stable manure at Waldo. I have tried phosphate on my trees, and I have tried potash on some trees as an experiment. I could not tell where I had put it. The fertilizer I did buy was bought because I cannot buy all the stable manure I want, nor make it all. I have used blood and bone, and still use it -to a small extent. I have made a good living raising fruit in Florida. I commenced without a dollar, except a piece of poor land. I have supported my family, and I have as nice a place as anybody about Waldo. I sold my oranges last year at an average of $1.10. Now, that is my experience and the result of stable manure. I wish to bring the oranges up and present them to the society. Those oranges were picked the first day of January last, and preserved by a process of my own, which I am not free to give away iust now. Mr. Peck —A great variety of opinion has been advanced this afternoon. We have not stable manure around our place so I thought I would give you a formula I have used and with very good results on poor pine lands. I purchase the material myself—sulphate of ammonia, sulphate of potash and acid phosphate. Possibly better results might be obtained from bone black, but I think if anybody who has a poor piece of land and wants a fertilizer that will do good service, will take that kind of material and get somebody to mix it for him, or do it himself, and will use about 5 per cent, of ammonia, 7 to 8 per cent, phosphoric acid, and 8 to 10 percent, actual potash v(K 2 O), he will have a fine fertilizer, Mr. Bacon —This has been the longest half-day I ever expe¬ rienced, but I have learned some things. You have allowed the other gentlemen to say a few words, so I hope you will al¬ low me to do the same. 1 am a humus man, a stable manure man and a cow manure man, but at the rate oranges have been selling I cannot buy chemical fertilizers. Some seven or eight years ago I went into the humus business. I pur¬ chased quite a quantity of pig mannre from neighbors that did not want it, and dug trenches round my trees and poured it in, and at the same time I covered my grove with decayed vegetable matter. I never had such a crop of or¬ anges. They produced the most astonishing crop of fruit, and every year since then I have been so poor that I have not been able to haul the mulching. Every year that I have not had 130 time to haul this mulching, as much as I would like to, 1 have occasionally bought a few tons of fertiliz"
