"Before reading his paper, Mr. Harvey said : Two gentlemen were appointed with me on this committee whom I have not seen, and with whom I have had no cor¬ respondence. I have never met these gentlemen. What I have to say, therefore, as to cultivation and varieties applies to my own section of the State—West Florida. As one of your committee, I will confine my portion of the report on peaches and plums to the section in which my orchard is located, that is Western Florida. I had hoped to be able to make a trip over the State, investigating *he peach and plum culture, so that I could make a report that would be of value to those cultivating, or intending to cultivate these reports. I regret to report that I was unable to do so. I did visit a few points in West Florida examining orchards. And here I hope to be excused for saying a good word for a railroad company. When I contemplated a trip examining orchards, I invited Mr. Gr. L. Tab-r to make the trip with me, being anxious to have his pornological knowledge. With the idea of making the personal expense less, I addressed a letter to the division passenger agent of the Li. & N. railroad, stating the object of the trip and asking the company for passes over their road, in view of the fact that a report would benefit the fruit business, and incidentally the company. I received a prompt answer from Mr. Lurt<>n, the division pas¬ senger agent ot the L. & N. company, with passes over their line in Florida (204 miles) doth ways, good to stop at any and all stations, for Mr. Taber and myself. Owing to sick¬ ness in Mr. Taber’s family, the trip was not made. But the action of the company deserves this acknowledgment. A GOOD RAILROAD SERVICE. In this connection I will digress to state that for several years I have shipped fruit by the L. & N. railway, my orchard being on their line, and the only road I ship over in Florida, and I have invariably received good attention and fair treat¬ ment from officers and employes. Last year I shipped seve¬ ral carloads and numerous smaller shipments, and while I think the charges entirely too much, the service was first- class. Ventilated cars were promply furnished and promptly taken away when loaded, and, better still, promptly delivered at destination. Through the courtesy of Mr. Saltmarsh, the division superintendent, I knew where my cars were, from point to point, when I asked for it. TRANSPORTATION CHARGES. I say I think the charges too much. I suppose we would think that if they were much less. Bat let us be just, if pos¬ sible. The fault of excessive freight rates does not lie at the door of the railroad officials that we come in contict with. They are simply trying (and failing often) to make expenses and pay interest on invested capital and water added by grace of legislative bodies. We have trird Railioad Com¬ missions, National and State, and failed. What next? Some gentlemen of this Society may think ail of this out of place in a report on peaches and plums, but I am trying to produce fruit in Chicago, New York, and wnere my custom¬ ers are, and I find transportation a very considerable part of the work. SUITABLE VARIETIES. The greatest difficulty about successful peach and plum culture is varieties suitable lor the locality. That is import¬ ant information that Experiment Stations should promptly furnish, but they do not. For an illustration, the earliest va¬ riety of peach we know of is the Peen-to. In the center of the Peninsula and South that peach may be a saccess, but it is entirely worthless in Northern Florida, the reason being that it blooms too early for any section that has late frosts. TIME OF BLOOMING. I have been forced to consider a feature of peach culture that I have never found in any book or catalogue, namely,. When does it bloom ? It is a question I have never se en an¬ swered by any one trying to sell trees. It is a far more im¬ portant question than when it ripens its fruit, and it is one that I recommend all intending planters of peach tre es to have answered before they purchase. If the variety blooms before the time that you may reasonably expect the last cold spell in your locality, do not touch it. It will shorten your life, and worry what you do have, to see, year after year, your peach trees become loaded with young peaches, only to be made mush of by a late cold spell. If some of my nursery friends, or catalogue fiends, had given me information on this point when I commenced planting trees, some nine years since, it would have saved me thousands of dollars and much vexation of spirit; and not only myself, but my poor, suffer¬ ing neighbors, as they followed in my footsteps and set out acres of crazy ttees that do not, sleep until spring comes. LATE BLOOMING DESIRABLE. A peculiar thing I have discovered only by experience is that it is not necessary to look for a variety that blooms early to get early peaches. WALDO AND ALEXANDER COMPARED. Take the Waldo and the Alexander, and this year’s ex¬ perience: The Waldo commenced to bloom 3d to 5th of Feb¬ ruary, at the time of the late cold snap, March 27th, the fruit was nearly half grown; all lost. The Alexander had not opened any bloom March 27th, and is about in full bloom tu-day, April 7th. Now if the Waldo had not lost its fruit,, it and the Alexander would have matured their fruit at the same time, about the last of May. Each will sell the same in market. With this very great disadvantage of early bloom¬ ing, the Waldo and all seedlings of the Peen-to, have one ad¬ vantage over any Persian variety that I have tried, and that is, the Chinese are decidedly the best woodmakers. But all that beautiful wood is nothing, if those varieties put on fruit each year only to be frozen by the late cold. FOUR BEST VARIETIES FOR WEST FLORIDA. If I wanted to set out ten acres in peaches now, I would* put in two acres Jesse Kerr, two acres Alexander, two acres General Lee, and four acres Elberta. As a money producer, there is no peach so far tried in West Florida equal to the Elberta. It ripens July 5th to 20th. The earlier varieties occasionally get very fancy prices, but there is none of them that have the quantity or quality of the Elberta, and it can be got to the most distant market in good condition. There may be many other varieties, even of the oldest, that are as good, or better than those mentioned, but these we have found by experience to be good. Good authority asserts that the Persian varieties will not do well in Eastern and South Florida. I would very much like to see them fairly tried on the clay hills of the central peninsula—say in Marion, Sumter and Polk counties. PLUM CULTURE. Of plum culture our experience in the western portion of the State is not sufficient to warrant any fixed opinions as to which is the best varieties. All that we are testing ot the old, and the Japan or Chinese varLtie*, are good wood- makers. The best of the orientals so far as we have gone, is the Burbank or Abundance, or bosh, if they are distinct varieties as many claim. NECESSITY FOR SPRAYING. Of one thing I am satisfied about plum culture, it cannot be made a success without careful, continuous and regular spraying. Insect life appears to luxuriate on the plum. In addition to the regular lot there has appeared with us one, if not two new varieties of scale insect, and the plums appear to suffer most, though they are attacking the peaches as well. I conclude that the future of plum culture—and possibly peach culture—dep nds on the efficiency and cost of spraying. It pays well to raise good peaches. It is possible to get from $500 to $700 per acre from a crop from trees four years old. A very fair return may bo had the second year after planting one-year-old trees. FORCING EARLY GROWTH. Nothing assures good trees more surely than forcing all the growth possible the first year. I consider this so im¬ portant that I think trees are almost worthless that have not made a good strong growth the first year. No after work or fertilizing can make them the same they would have been if properly led and worked the first year. Of course, the first year or two, they need a fertilizer strong in nitrogen. I suppose the cheapest source of nitrogen for us is cottonseed meal. COTTONSEED FOR FERTILIZER. The very best three hundred peach trees I have ever seen at 4 three-year-old were fertilized the first and second years with crushed cottonseed entirely. The trees matured a very large crop of fruit the third year, and the fruit was simply per¬ fection. I was astonished at the perfection of all of the fruit, as the trees were loaded down until the limbs lay on the ground. There was but little, if any, fertilizer put on the third year, so the strength, size and ability of the trees to matu- e a very large crop of fine fruit was from the feed of the first and second years."
