"I should like to call attention to the fact that the work of crossing the best varieties of citrus fruits is in progress at the sub-tropical laboratory. Our first crosses were made in March, 1893. To insure against any possibility of self-pollination, the flowers were opened forcibly before the pollen was ripe, and all the authers were carefully cut away. Then, to protect the flower against the visits of insects, it was inclosed in a paper or close woven cloth bag. This insured that no foreign pollen could be car¬ ried to the stigma by bees or other insects. When the stigma became moist and receptive, pollen from some other variety was applied, and the bags tied on again. Of about a hundred crosses made, only nineteen developed mature fruit this winter. The seeds from these fruits will be planted, and the hybrid plants will be forced into bearing as soon as possible. It is of advantage to have a number of seeds from each cross, since the offspring from a given cross are not by any means all similar. Often, on the contrary, they are often all different, combining in every possible way the quali¬ ties of the parent varieties. By having enough crossed plants it would doubtless be pos¬ sible to obtain any desired blending of the qualities of two varieties. By crossing the hybrid offspring with a third va¬ riety or with another cross bred sort, the possibilities of vari¬ ations in the offspring are greatly increased. By planting large quantities of seed from such multiple crosses there is every probability that entirely new sorts will be obtained, some of great value. Aside from increased variability of cross-bred plants, there is much more chance of their produc¬ ing valuable sports than with ordinary seedlings. In fact, sports are simply enormous variations, and are more often found among variable plants than among stable ones. It might be interesting to note that Luther Burbank, the great Cali¬ fornia hybridizer, depends wholly on these chance sports in originating new varieties by crossing. It is our intention to cross in various ways all the best va¬ rieties of citrus fruits, and to attempt to obtain valuable new sorts in all these ways. Of course it will require some time to obtain results. At any rate, the work is started and will be pushed as rapidly as possible. 1 have with me a few of the crossed fruits that you are wel¬ come to examine. I have so far been unable to detect any dif¬ ference between the cross-pollinated fruit and others growing on the same mother tree. Discussion On Citrus Fruits. C. B. Bacon—I would like to ask Professor Webber what he calls the St. Michael’s blood orange. We have a St. Mich¬ ael’s orange on the east coast that is almost entirely seedless, but I understand that in the interior they have a St. Michael’s that is as full of seed as any other orange. Prof. Webber—I am not informed as to this. Yerv likely Mr. Hubbard can give you a better answer. E. S. Hubbard —There have been several importations of St. Michael oranges and they are nearly all different. They have a peculiar character and are rather acid. Mr. Bacon —The orange that we call St. Michael’s is com- monly oblong, and it is late in season, say February or March. It is red, is a very rich fruit, and lias very few or no seeds. Mr. Hubbard —You have what is commonly called the St. Michael’s Egg orange. Mr. Bacon —My St. Michael’s have as few seeds as many of the so-called seedless varieties. Ju>t here I want to ask an other question: Is there a seedless pomelo or grape fruit ? I have seen frequent references lately to a seedless grape fruit, and I should like to know if there is a variety which has no seeds. A. G. Avery —We have some kinds with comparatively few seeds. I do not think there is a variety that is entirely seedbss. Prof. W. T. Swingle— There is one point I would like to mention: While at the World’s Fair last summer I sf ent some time trying to di-cover the exhibits of citrus fruits, and must say it was a hard search. I finally found them. One of the finest exhibits was made by the government of Japan in the Educational Building. There I found a well written catalogue in English, on the varieties grown in Japan. Fif¬ teen or twenty varieties of oranges were described. These or¬ anges were represente*! by models, were well described and showed that there are much finer oranges in Japan than we have imparted from there. 1 hope when our Importing Soci¬ ety is formed we shall get hold of these fine fruiis from Japan."
