"My experience with fertilizers has been with their use in orange groves onty. I can give but little positive information and shall confine myself to a few suggestions, hoping to pro¬ voke discussion and elicit information from the members present. Io is generally accepted that the three principal elements required in a fertilizer are potash, phosphoric acid and nitrogen. What we want is to obtain these elements, either separately or mixed, at the lowest market price and in the best form. What is the best form of each of these elements, and what is the best combination? It is commonly believed that sulphate of potash is the best form in which to apply potash to orange trees. Has it been proved by exhaustive experiments ? We get phosphoric acid from various sources and in various forms. Which is the best ? The question of nitrogen is still more important. It is probable that the health of our trees and the quality of our fruit is affected by the quantity and form of nitrogen which we apply more than by either of the other elements. What is the best form ? From my own observation I venture the opinion that nitro¬ gen applied in crude waste animal materials is detrimental to the quality of the fruit if not to the health of the trees. If we resort to pure chemicals what shall we use ? It seems to be established beyond question that we can grow a large part of the required nitrogen, in our younger groves at least. The beggar-weed and cow-pea undoubtedly gather free nitrogen from the air and store it in both their tops and roots While I believe most fertilizer manufacturers are honest, under present conditions we are at their mercy. Our fertilizer law does not give us adequate protection. There is a solution of the problem which can be brought . . t • about by our Agricultural Experiment Station or by some public-spirited citizen of means. That is, by making comparative tests in the grove for a number of years in succession of different formulas. When we have decided upon the best formula and the best sources from which to obtain the needed constituents we can go to the manufacturers and ask them to compete for our patronage. We shall need no elaborate law to protect us. Will not the method of fertilizing and cultivating our groves go as far, ultimately, in deciding the question of profit in orange growing as the method of marketing ?"
