"The southern boundary of the United States describes a sort of ogee, with short curve around the Gulf, and long curve up the Mexican line and Pacific coast. This line is nearly 3,000 miles long from point to point, and within 150 miles of it lie the sub tropical regions of this country. But, unfortunately for our figure, this strip is not sub-tropical throughout its entire length. When we apply this test our ogee falls in two in the middle. The sub-tropical region which follows down the Pacific coast and passes the head of the Gulf of California does not reach the New Mexican line, and the sub tropical region that follows the Gulf from the Keys to Mexico, stops short at the plains of Western Texas. Separated by the arid table lands and elevated regions of Western Texas and Southern New Mexico, which form the back bone of the continent where crossed by our southern boundary, our sub-tropical regions lie in two segments, one at either end of this line. I trust I shall be pardoned these allusions to trite ge¬ ographical facts, I wish to emphasize the point that our sub-tropical country is naturally and widely seperated into two great divisions. The sub-tropical region of the Pacific lying crescent shaped convex to the Western ocean, with its horns resting on the Golden Gate and the Arizona line;, and the sub-tropical region of the Gulf, likewise cresent shaped, concave to the Gulf of Mexico, and extending from Cape Sable to the Rio Grande. These two widely separated regions have much less in common than we have been wont to think, While both are sub tropical, they are at variance in topography, soil, cli¬ mate and productions. This difference is most apparent in the two extremes. California farthest west, and Florida farthest east. There the surface is broken, even moun¬ tainous, here level; their climate is unlike ours in nearly every condition, the only marked similarity being that neither is subject to very low ranges of temperature; they have weather incident to narrow strips betw< en high moun¬ tains, or between high mountains ancl the sea; our atmos¬ pheric conditions are modified by the broad expanse of water which surrounds us; their seasons are the reverse of ours,, their soils require different manipulation than ours; in hor¬ ticulture their most valued acquisitions come from Europe, ours from Eastern Asia. I will not stop to amplify these dissimilarities, which are apparent, nor to point out others that might be mentioned. Because California products have been found in a few mar¬ kets alongside of our own; because California also raises oranges; or because there, too, palm trees grow in the south¬ ernmost confines, we have fallen into the habit of measuring ourselves up by the side of California, and have come to look upon the Golden Gate as our competitor and exemplar. But, Mr. President and fellow members, I submit that the horticulture of the Pacific coast is too dissimilar to have value as a criterion, and California is too far away to become a rival. Dismissing the Pacific sub-tropical region, let us consider for a moment the othei great sub-tropical region of the United States, the Gulf coast country, of which our own state forms a part, but, let us not deceive ourselves—by no means the only important part. While we have been taken up with the California bugaboo, absorbed in measuring ourselves by standards in vogue on the other side of the continent, we have overlooked, lit¬ erally overlooked, a rival near at hand; a real rival of our own size and make-up; a rival about to finish training and likely to give us a serious contest for horticultural honors and preferment in the near future. Part of our own coast country; at the other end of this sub-tropical crescent; just across the Gulf; I refer to coast¬ wise Texas. The surface of the country, the soil, the cli¬ mate and the horticultural productions of coastwise Texas are like those of Florida. The products of her market gar¬ dens are already well known in the great markets of the Mississippi valley; she produces the small fruits we do; the figs, pomegranates, grapes and miscellaneous fruits that we grow, succeed there; during the past few years thousands of acres of peaches, plums and pears have been planted in this Texas coast country, oriental varieties, the same as our own, from China, Japan, and the East Indies; as in Florida most of the varieties of these and similar fruits from Europe as well as those from the north, do not succeed. Put, we say complacently, “this is not an orange country.” Let us not be too sure of this. Coastwise Texas reaches far¬ ther south than Lake Worth or Punia Gorda, and its horti¬ cultural records not only report oranges yielding abun¬ dantly, but also limes, while banana culture is laid down as having already attained a commercial success. It is, in fact, a question whether in citrus culture in one respect at least, they are not in advance of us; for they are planting their or¬ ange groves on hardy, dormant-in-winter stocks, which their growers claim mature the fruit before frost, ripening it for the high prices of the early market, and rendering the trees resistant to the lowest degree of cold to which that region is liable. Their trees are reported uninjured by the un¬ usually severe cold of the past winter. This region across the Gulf is by no means of limited ex¬ tent. The sub-tropical coast country of Texas embraces an area equal to the entire peninsula of Florida. Old residenters have been developing its horticulture for years. Mr. G. Onderdonk, one of the pioneers, who began before the war, speaking way back in the eighties of Southeastern Texas, says: “Starting with only a few dimly lighted landmarks, she has beaten her toilsome way until she has a well defined horticulture.” In 1891, speaking before the Texas State Horticultural Society, he says: “Many have presumed that Southeastern Texas could produce only cacti, mesquite and thorny chaparral, but, with the array of fruit we have here, none can speak lightly of the pomology of this large area. The pomology of southeastern Texas, so distinct from that of other parts of the state, has vastly outstripped the most sanguine expectations of her students of forty years ago.” Texas is about as large as New England and the Middle States, or all the cotton states east of the Mississippi river combined. In the older settled districts in the northern part of the state, fruit culture has been long established, and is about as nearly related to the pomology of the coast as the pomology of upper Georgia is to that of Florida. Less than a year ago the Texas State Horticultural Society met at Rockport, which is well down on the coast. The fruit exhibit came from the coast country. Referring to it, the leading horticultural journal of the state, the “Firm and Ranch,” says: The exhibits were the finest ever seen in the state. Attracted by its horticultural advantages, people are going, to this country for the purpose of fruit growing, new towns are springing up, land is being cleared and hundreds of or¬ chards planted. They are having such a boom over there a & we had late in the seventies. Working under conditions similar to ours, raising the same fruits for the same markets we do, these intelligent, energetic horticulturists of the Texas coast country are, not only competitors and compeers from whom we have much to fear, as well as much to learn, but, the}' are also neighbors;, for it is but a short span from the Perdido to the Sabine, and the intervening strip across lower Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana is of the same character, part and parcel ot the sub-tropical region of the Gulf. Running over the history of horticultural progress on op¬ posite sides of the Gulf, one is struck that the lines followed are so nearly parallel. Twenty years ago our first State horticultural society was organized at Palatka, and called the Florida Fruit Growers’ Association. Its second, and perhaps most impor¬ tant meeting was held in 1875 in this city, scarce a block from this spot. The governor thought the occasion of suf¬ ficient importance to require the presence of himself and cab¬ inet, and in response to the invitation of the association, the legislature adjourned to enable its members to come down from Tallahassee and attend. There are a few, a very few persons in attendance at this meeting who will recall with* what interest we listened to the discussion on “Florida as Compared with the West,” led off by the venerable Solon. Robinson, ex-agricultural editor of the New York Tribune, Floridian by adoption, or to Col. Dane}', the pioneer orange- grower, a recognized authority, one of the few men at that time possessed of an old bearing grove, as he expatiated upon* “Orange Culture as an Investment for Capital.” Most of us were begifmers who had just finished planting our first fiye acres. A report of this meeting was issued from the press of the old “Florida Agriculturist,” then published in this city and edited by Col. Codrington. Among the names of those who participated in the proceedings, names that have a place in the history of our state, are H. S. Sanford, P„ P. Bishop, A. S. Baldwin, Columbus Drew, J. S. Adams, Harrison Heed, H. L. Hart, E. K. Foster, and “Concussion’\" Hardee of “Honeymoon.” With the passing of the speculative period in orange cul¬ ture, interest in the Fruit Growers’ Association waned, and it gradually fell into innocuous desuetude. This brings us to the practical horticulture of the present. In 1886 we organized the Florida Nurseryman’s Association. The interest in the meetings of this association was so gen¬ eral that it was determined to widen its scope. In 1887 the Florida Nurseryman’s Association issued an invitation to the horticulturists of the state to join in the formation of a state horticultural society. This was accomplished in 1888 by the joint action of the Florida Nurseryman’s Association, members of the old Fruit Growers’ Association and other horticulturists. In 1889 the Florida State Horticultural Societv entertained the 22d biennial session of the American Pomological Society at Ocala. In 1892 we began the reg¬ ular publication of our proceedings, including stenogiaphic reports of the discussions. We are about to take up the work of cataloguing our fruits. In the words of President Adams, “the State Horticultural Society has steadily grown in numbers, influence and usefulness, till at the age of seven years it is the peer of similar societies in any state in the Union.” Meanwhile, what has been going on across the Gulf? In 1886 the North Texas Horticultural Sotiety^ and the Pilot Point Horticultural Society joined the Central Texas Hor¬ ticultural Society, upon the invitation of the latter, in organ¬ izing the Texas State Horticultural Society. In 1889 this society began the publication of its proceedings. In 1890 it announced that the ninth regular meeting of the American Horticultural Society would be held in Texas. The society has grown to be a large and influential body like our own, and at its next annual meeting will undertake the cat¬ aloguing of the fruits of Texas. Throughout the country wherever fruit growing has be¬ come an industry of importance, the state horticultural so¬ cieties have compiled catalogues of the fruits grown, show¬ ing by their arrangement and marking the relative adapta- toility of the various varieties to the several sections, such catalogues being revised every year and published in connec¬ tion with the reports of the proceedings of the societies. These catalogues form an invaluable guide to the planter and enable even a novice to select with certainty. In this sub¬ tropical region, where selection is more difficult than else¬ where, because conditions are peculiar and the precedents of other sections are not to be depended upon, such p catalogue would be invaluable. Up to this time neither in Florida, Texas, nor the intervening states, has such a work been is¬ sued. The only information of the kind obtainable is to be found in the magnificent fruit catalogue of the American Pomo- logical society, which includes the fruits of the entire coun¬ try, but is too general, and covers too wide a range, to include the specific information required in any particular section, and especially in a section like this where fruit culture is com¬ paratively new and developing rapidly. When the general revision was made of the American Pomo- logical society’s catalogue, in 1891, the Sub-Tropical com¬ mittee of that society submitted tabulated and properly marked lists of the fruits of the Gulf coast sub-tropical region, and, as chairman of that committee, I urged the importance of giving this great section, unique and peculiar in its pomology, a sep¬ arate and distinct place in the catalogue, but the time-honored oustom of listing by stat es was adhered to, lessening the value of the work for this region, although the revision was, for this section, as elsewhere, as thorough and comprehensive as possible under the restrictions of this rule. With the sole exception of Florida, the sub-tropical regions, both of the Pacific and the Gulf, are made up of parts of states having little in common, pomologically speaking, with those portions of the same states lying outside. Hence the inapplicability to this region of fruit lists made up with re¬ gard to political rather than pomological lines, and the great importance of the work now under way in Texas and Florida. These two horticuhural communities, which have grown up during the past quarter century on opposite sides of the Gulf, and which have so many interests in common, have been, up to this time, practically speaking, strangers. Is it not time for us to get acquainted ? What better way of bringing this about than through a joint meeting of the two horticultural societies ? Aside from the pleasure such a session would afford its participants, would not the interchange of experi¬ ence and opinion elicited, especially if published, be ot great value to the horticulture of both states ? The Texas society will adopt a catalogue at its next meeting ; it is proposed to attempt a similar work at our next meeting—what better time for such a joint session than the year following the catalogu¬ ing of the fruits of both states ? At the conclusion of his remarks Mr. Manville offered the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted: Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed by the president to prepare and present to the Texas Stale Horti¬ cultural society an invitation to meet the Florida State Hor¬ ticultural society in joint session in the year 1896, and that said committee be empowered to act for the society in the matter of arranging timo, place and neeessary preliminaries for such joint session in case this invitation is accepted by the Texas society. Introduction of New Fruits and Plants. At the Pensacola meeting of the Society (April, 1893, see published report), Prof. W. T. Swingle, of the U. S. Sub- Tropical Laboratory at Eustis, Fla., urged that some steps be taken by the Society looking to the introduction of new fruits and plants. In an address of exceptional interest on this subject he pointed out the great gain that had resulted to our horticulture from the very limited importations which had been made, and called attention to the fact that hundreds of varieties and species remained to be introduced, which there was every reason to believe were especially desirable. He introduced his remarks as follows : “ The advances made during recent years in horticulture are largely due to the introduction of new varieties of culti¬ vated plants, or to the improvement of old ones by careful selection and hybridizing. When we consider the great changes the introduction of a single good variety may work in the horticulture of a whole district or state, it seems curious, to say the least, why more effort has not been made to procure all known varieties and test them thoroughly in each region.” After recounting and describing at some length many kinds which it was especially desirable to introduce into Florida, he continued : “After considerable thought it has seemed most feasible to me to organize a stock company or society for the express purpose of introducing these economic plants. * * * Baron von Muller enumerates 2,485 species of useful plants, tried in Florida ? Very many of the most important sub' tropical and tropical plants have never been introduced, much less tried here. “I would suggest, therefore, that the company send a trained agent to various countries and that he collect what¬ ever economic plants he can obtain, as well as citrus fruits and their allies. The plants thus imported could be placed on sale, and would, if judiciously advertised, hardly fail to pay expenses, at the very start, and would certainly be a most profitable investment in the end,” etc. Prof. Swingle explained that the United States Depart¬ ment of Agriculture could not undertake such a work, and •oncluded as follows: “Horticulturists of Florida, by what 1 have said I hope I have succeeded in convincing many of you at least that the Inauguration of this move would succeed as a business ven¬ ture, would eventually place it in the power of every one to grow new and better fruits and other crops, and would, in so doing, place you ahead of all competitors, foreign or domes¬ tic. * * * Is it not high time that Florida’s horticultur¬ ists show their abiding faith and interest in the welfare of themselves and their prosperity by putting into immediate execution some plan for the systematic introduction of econ¬ omic plants suited to our climate?” The ideas advanced by Prof. Swingle were favorably received by the Society, and after considerable discussion the following was unanimously passed : Resolved, That a committee of five be appointed by the President to whom shall be referred that portion of Prof. Swingle’s report relating to an organization for the purpose of introducing new varieties. It is expected that this com¬ mittee will issue a circular letter, calling astention to the importance of the matter, and if it meets with sufficient en¬ couragement the committee is authorized to perfect suck organization. The following committee was appointed : S. S. Harvey, W. T. Swingle, H. S. Williams, G. L. Taber, G. P. Healy. When the Committee on the the Introduction of New Fruits and Plants was called at the Jacksonville meeting, Chairman Harvey said: “The committee has not been able to make much progress. The times are too hard and dollars too scarce to bring about an investment of this kind. The committee has not thought it a propitious time for such a movement. Your committee asks to be continued. If this be done and the times improve they will take the matter up the coming year.” A motion was unanimously passed that the Committee on suitable for cultivation in extra-tropical regions. * * * In comparison with these numbers how few plants have been the Introduction of New Fruits and Plants be made one of the Society’s regular standing committees, and that its mem¬ bership be unchanged for another year."
