"After receiving the notice from your honorable ex-secretary, Mr. Hart, much thought was put on just what the nature of the report on entomology should be. After the field had been carefully considered it became clear that I would not be serv¬ ing the Florida State Horticultural Society nor the state to the best of my ability, by bringing here correctly named spec¬ imens and fine stereopticon views to illustrate important in¬ sects under discussion, nor by presenting some new device or insecticide for slaying our insect enemies by the thousands^ Ladies and gentlemen—This way of treating the subject has been in vogue since the organization of the society; the speeches have been good; often considerable time had been spent in their preparation. These discussions have been con¬ fined to insect enemies that were in the state. Let me pre¬ sent to you three insects that we have not, and one that has barely put his foot on Florida soil. THE OLIVE POLLINIA. The olive industry is just beginning to attract some atten¬ tion in this state. Much has been written and said of it in California. New and promising varieties have been intro¬ duced from Europe. Recently it has been discovered that with this importation from Italy there has been brought in also the olive pollinia, pollinia costae targ. This scale insect so closely resembles the bark that it will not be detected or¬ dinarily. It is particularly dangerous in that the usual washes or insecticides do not destroy it. In passing I may mention that there are several other insects in Europeon the olive that have not yet found their way to America. The polliniajis a serious pest even m Europe, where labor is cheap and its^ene- mies present to checkmate it. THE GYPSY MOTH. (Ocnena Dispar .) This most destructive pest was brought to this country by Mr. L. Trouvelot, now of Paris. Mr. Trouvelot was at the time experimenting at Medford, Mass., with native worms in raising silk. He brought a cluster of gypsy moth eggs from France, and accidentally lost them. The larvae did not at¬ tract especial attention, so no effort was made to stamp them out in the beginning. Whenever noticed they were thought to be simply canker worms, tent caterpillars or some other native and less destructive moth. It has now spread through 29 cities and towns of Eastern Massachusetts. The territory is bounded by a line beginning a few miles south of Boston, running west three counties, then two counties north, and then in a northeasterly direction to Manchester. It is more or less thickly disseminated throughout this area. In places where it is abundant the fields are simply devastated. There is- scarcly a plant that is sacred to its abnoimal appetite. In 1890 the legislature approprioted $50,000 toward its destruction. In 1891 $50,000 more was appropriated, and in 1892 the sum had to be raised to $75,000. First the work was handed over to excellent men who had no entomological training; later it it was put in the hands of scientific entomologists, but the gypsy moth, she is still there. Much good has been done; the pest has been kept from spreading by strict laws and patrolmen constantly watching the border. Ladies and gentlemen—How very easy would it be for some good friend of yours living in the infested dis¬ trict to send >ou a few grape cuttings that might have been secreted under their loose bark or in the sphagnum about them, a half-dozen of these eggs that are about the size of mustard seed ? Or perchance be sent in with a few choice roses. You see any one might be perfectly innocent and yet cause the loss of thousands of dollars worth of property. THE FLUTED SCALE. Those who were present at the Pensacola meeting, remem¬ ber the stereopticon slide illustrating the life history of the fluted scale (leery puischasi). This will be found on pages 149, 150 and 151, Proceedings Sixth Annual Meeting of the Florida State Horticultural Society. Let us look at the rapidity with which this insect spreads. In 1885 Mr. Cook, at Sacramento, noticed that this insect covered a spice of about three by four inches on an acacia tree. In less than two years it had spread over an area of 12,800 square feet, or more than a quarter of an acre; at the same rate in two more years it would have spread overmuch more than an entire township. Curious as it m>iy seem, this insect was imported on an aca¬ cia, a plant belonging to an entirely different family than the orange. This pest is such an omniverous feeder that when once established it simply permeates all the vegetation, and 7 ftSVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE the orange suffers most severely. The date of importation is 1871. It was 1882 before any strong efforts were made to eradicate it, and it was 1890 before it was finally gotten under control. The local horticultural -societies worked hard; the county horticultural societies aided all they could; the State Horticultural Society went to the legislature; the legislature appropriated money and passed laws; congress made special appropriations, and for a while it looked like the world against the fluted scale. It is now under control, but it took more money tuan any legislative body ever gave to the orange indus¬ try of Florida. It is not our good j udgment that ha* kept it out of Florida, but rather the strict quarantine of California. If it were to be imported to several places in Florida, I predict that it would defy all lertdizers, insecticides, and all gases; it would take up its abode in our hammocks and bay heads on the bay trees and other evergreens, making them a constant source of infection. They would be a scourge, the like of which has never visited our balmy state. SAN JOSE SCALE. ( A&pidiotus pertiiciosus com.) This very pernicious scale was imported from Chili, and, therefore, an imported enemy. It has been called the San Jose scale, because it was destructive in the ban Jose country, and t he first work was done against it in that va ley. In spite of all efforts, time consumed and money spent with a view of destroying it, there is still a respectable amount of the infection left there; sufficient within a few years to infect Maryland, Virginia, New Mexico and Florida. We are threatened. In California it has defied the w county horticultural societies, the state horticultural societies, the legislature and the United States Division of Entomology to dislodge it. Like the fabled hydra of old, it springs up out of its own ashes. While you are cutting it to pieces in California the chips fall in New Mexico, in Maryland, in Virginia and Florida. Ladies and gentlemen—If this pest is allowed to be disseminated through¬ out Northern Florida, who will in 1904 represent the Florida State Horticultural Society from that section ? Mr. President, you will pardon me if I digress from the en¬ tomological on so important a question. SERAH. At the Pensacola meeting Prof. Swingle called the atten¬ tion of the society to the fact that there existed in Java a bacterial disease of sugar cane. That there has been a stand¬ ing offer tor four years of $5,000 to anyone devising a prac¬ tical plan for overcoming this disease. The Professor also 9T called attention to the fact that the importation of a single inch of such a diseased cane could, under the proper circum¬ stances, hopelessly ruin the sugar industry of Florida. PEACH ROSETTE. In the same speech attention was called to the existence of peach rosette in Georgia, just across our border line. I will not go into the description of this disease; suffice it to say that it is only a question of four or five months’ time from the attack until the trees are only good for fire wood. But the worst of the whole matter is that a portion, ever so small when carried from a diseased to a healthy tree, can produce the disease in the healthy one. Thus the unsuspecting fruit grower may, on the blade of his pruning hook or grafting knife, carry the disease to any or all the trees in his orchard, from one diseased tree. This disease is not in Florida as far as I am able to learn. THE CALINORNIA VINE DISEASE. In Orange county, California, seven years ago there was 10,000 acres of vines. The land sold for $300 to $500 per acre; last year the same land would not bring more than $T5 to $200 per acre. The loss as a result of this vine disease is •estimated at not less than $3,000,000. this the lowest estimate. This single disease has rendered worthless for vine culture, 20,000 acres or more. The cause, introduction and cure are all unknown. There is no doubt that our soil, climate and temperature will permit this disease to be propagated. POURRIDIE. (Dematophora necatrix.) Let me speak of another vine disease that we may expect almost any time; this is known in France as pourridie. It is caused by a fungus, dematophora necatrix. This has lately been introduced into Australia in a bundle of grape cuttings. It is not present in Florida, but the climatic conditions are perfect for its propagation. MANGO BLIGHT. Mr. President—I have one more case to offer. There has been lately, i. e., within the last three or four years, intro¬ duced a blight of the mango blossoms. As far as my obser¬ vations goes, it exists only in a limited area, and could be easily subjugated or entirely destroyed. We are in imminent danger of all the diseases discussed in this paper. But these are not all that threaten our prosperity T,wo of them are already within our borders; the others may be to-morrow. Your neighbor may to-day import the San Jose scale, and you may know that it is the dreaded insect,, but what are you going to do about it ? You may kill such* as cross to your premises, but you have no right to enter his field to destroy the source of infection. This brings to mind! the case in Sacramento. In 1885 the city trustees appropri¬ ated $200 to exterminate the fluted scale within the city lirm its; this was done excepting within certain premises where* trespassing was forbidden. This open source of contagion had to be endured until the legislature made it lawful to enter these premises. Let us take a brief review of these troubles. The olive pol- linia is a native of semi-tropical Europe; the gypsy moth, of France; the fluted scale, of Australia; the San Jose scale, of Chili; the serah, bacterial disease of sugar cane, of Java; pour- ridie, vine disease of France, is now in Australia; the Cali¬ fornia vine disease, of California; the peach and plum rosette,, present in the southern part of Georgia. The olive pollinia was brought to California on the olive,, by whom, not known. The fluted scale brought to California by private enterprise. The gypsy moth brought to Massa¬ chusetts by a foreigner. The San Jose scale in same way as fluted scale. Pourridie taken to Australia in a bunch of grape cuttings. Mango blight, not known. Serah, of sugar cane, peach rosette and California vine disease, still in the place of original discovery, and let’s keep them there. In looking over the diseases you will see that the great ma¬ jority have been introduced by carelessness of private enter¬ prise. It is a rare thing that a nurseryman or dealer allows- anything of this kind to be disseminated. Can anything be done to remedy this? Yes! What? First, prevent the introduction; seeond, stamp out any spo¬ radic case. Massachusetts is preventing the gypsy moth from spreading and is thinning out its numbers in the infested re¬ gions, although it infests thousands of acres. Iowa has cleared her fields of Canada thistle without costing the state anything. California has, on account of her carelessness, a herculean* task to peiform; if she perseveres success will crown her ban¬ ner. Florida is peculiarly free from disease. i know of no other one state so free from disease. If you will look at ihe map you will see that there is only one source from which natural infection can take place; that is from the north. The severest diseases of temperate United States do notflour- it-h in semi-tropical Florida, so there is only a limited number to be contracted from that source. The Australian, Chinese, Japanese and Western South American plants have been first- brought to California, and have there gone through a season of cleansing, and then sent to Florida. Now it is very dear from what other states have done, that ithe artificial source of infection is under control if we only think so. Mr. President, as the best manner in which this could be reached, let it be suggested that a committee be appointed to dook into the laws of the different states and countries if pos¬ sible, and bring out their defects and excellencies, and report them with recommendations to this society at the next annual meeting."
