"Grape growing is among the oldest horticultural industries since the creation, and therefore its consideration commands a portion of our time and attention. Grapes may be seen growing to perfection in nearly all parts of the world ; on hill sides, in the valleys, by the run¬ ning streams, on the plains, in tropical as well as temperate zones, not a civilized country but what they are grown to a greater or less extent. Yet, how few of us understand the requirements of the vine. Different species require different treatment and soil. Some varieties require a sandy soil, others clay, marl or muck, and the planter that plants his vines without a due regard to the requirements of variety, soil, etc., will not meet with success. Seven years ago the planting of the grape began quite largely in South Florida. A large acreage was planted, mostly to White Niagara, and up to last year there were 500 acres in Orange county alone, and at least half that amount in adjoining counties. When the spring of ’93 opened the grape growers were very sanguine that a large crop would bless their efforts and re¬ munerative prices be leceived. The first shipments to Philadelphia and New York brought good returns; all subsequent shipments failed. The best of packing and handling by the grower came to naught. Word came back, “ grapes received in bad condi¬ tion.” Why was this? The growers were obliged to ship by express ; no refrigerator service could be secured ; express car was hot during the day but cool at night, the same thing the second and third day and the result was death to the business. This year not over one-half of the vineyards are being worked, and lack of remunerative prices is the cause. To make viticulture pay in Florida one of two things must be done: there must be first-class, rapid refrigerator service at reasonable rates, or the grapes must be manufactured into wine. From personal observation and experience in the field I have come to the following conclusions : “ Plant fewer Niag' ara vines, and on our sandy soil more Herbemont, Norton’s Virginia and Cynthiana; plant on higher land than has been previously recommended; use as a fertilizer plenty of am¬ monia, phosphoric acid and sulphate of potash ; work vine- 3 ^ards using clean culture up to June 1. In South Florida we must trust to express and transportation companies to give us better service or we must go out of the business.” These conclusions are drawn from a state where a large variety of grapes grow to perfection."
