"The strawberry occupies a large space in the recollections of our childhood. Memory of the wide, waving meadow is dear to us for thoughts of the luscious, red berry which g»*ew so abundantly there. The “old oaken bucket which rose from the well” refreshed, but the tall, green grass hid and sheltered a rub} T treasure which satisfied our souls. We have now come to maturity. Romance has gone with the passing of years and the strawberry is—what is was not in our earlier days—a commercial fact as well as an almost universal luxury. To consider its culture as an article of commerce and also as a gratification of our personal taste is the object of this report. We will first specify the qualities which make when united the perfected strawberry so desirable : It must be sw<et. It must be sour. It must be bard. It must be soft. Lastly, it mrst possess harmoniously and combine all those qualities of size, color, taste and aroma characteristic of and belonging to the strawberry alone The apparent contradic¬ tions seem to prove that there are really two distinct sides of the strawberry—the commercial berry and the berry of the connoisseur. I do not, however, think this entirely true, as most of these qualities may and do unite and blend in one harmonious whole. The meadow-grown berry of my child¬ hood was both sweet and sour—in color a brilliant crimson— in aroma most fragrant; yet if carried a thousand miles to market it would get there covered with the moss of ages. How to obtain these various and most desirable qualities to the exclusion of the undesirable is to a great extent still unknown, although many things have been shown by ex¬ perience. Location, moisture and fertilization are prominent factors, but most prominent in fertilization. We will first consider location. The natural habits of the strawberry seem to direct us to choose a place where it is readily available and yet not permanently wet (as in that case the berry will be too soft)—a soil rich and retentive of mois¬ ture yet easily drained. Here let me say that a soil either naturally fertile or made so by judicious fertilization is gen¬ erally retentive of moisture. To that extent fertilization will take the place of irrigation. By observing this principle I believe that the strawberry can be grown to perfection as well on high pine land as on rich hammock or flatwoods. Second, moisture. How to obtain this in exceptionally dry seasons is a difficult problem. In some localities sprinkling by means of water thrown in the air from a hose does not suit the case. The fall of water even a fine spray has, in my own experience, had an injurious effect both in the quality and productiveness of the plant. This may, however, be from some other cause which my experience has not been extensive enough to detect. To my mind an effective scheme of sub¬ irrigation would be just the thing, especially upon sandy land, as that would unite the advantages of moisture and per¬ fect drainage. Moisture can also be conserved by mulching. The best article for this purpose is clean straw covering between the rows and carefully placed under the plant so as to prevent both leaves and fruit from touching the sand. Where clean straw, either oat or rye, cannot be obtained, wire grass raked when dry will answer quite as well. This is an excellent practice in any case, even where moisture is abundant, and the mulching should be put in place before the fruit ripens As to fertilization, which I deem the most important of all, much can be said. Even the wisest cannot say it all. We can apply chemicals which will cause the plant to grow and bear fruit, but the peculiar aroma which gives to every fruit its own individuality we cannot place in the soil. Most soils contain, to a greater or lesser extent, the acids of which that flavor is composed, but the tree or plant must compound them in its own laboratory. One thing, however, observation has taught—that the most healthy and normally vigorous plants and trees produc e the most highly flavored fruit. To that end we can supply those elements which will but conduce to that result. You all know what they are—ammonia, phos¬ phoric acid and potash. All these should be in the form of sulphate as we need the sulphuric acid to make our berry sweet. Almost any of the high grade fertilizers will be found efficient. My own preference is for a purely chemical formula. Prepare the ground by thoroughly pulverizing it, at the same time mixing in as much fertilizer as your conscience will allow. You need not fear putting on too much if thoroughly mixed with the soil a week or more before setting in the plants. As to the proper time to set the plants opinion vary. Sep¬ tember is none too early in this latitude tor the market berry * October is not too late for home use. The market berry should ripen in February or March; for home use it will be richer if ripened in April and May. These are a few of the principles observed by the best grow¬ ers, and they will need modification as to locality and soil. Each must study and experiment for himself. To you who plant for gain I would say that when the fruit first shows its crimson face, pick it carefully in the cool of the day, pack it daintily in honest measure, carry it to the station without a jolt and bid it good bye with joy for it shall return transformed from red to gold. And you, housewife or husband, looking not to pecuniary harve st—gather when fully ripe, sprinkle with sugar and cover with cream, and as you eat let memory carry you again to the scenes of your youth— sit once more in the porch of the farm house under the hill— look on the tall, brown gras* in the meadow—think of the fruit gathered therefrom in the long-gone June days—feel once more the ecstacy of that childish appetite and then thank God that He created the strawberry and made it so good."
