"The Committee on Kaki submitt ing no report, the subject was taken up and discussed as follows : C. F. A. Bielby —1 think almost every one present has an interest in this subject, and it would be gratifying to every¬ one here to hear from those who have raised Japan persim¬ mons and of their successes. There is no question about the possibilities of raising the fruit, nor is there question about the quality of it, but how to prepare it so that in getting it to market it may be presented sound and whole and induce the people of the consuming portion of the country to purchase it, is the only question we have much interest in. I shipped quite a large quantity last year, and every box I was able to put in the market sound, sold for a very good price; but un¬ fortunately I do not seem to have the knack of putting it up so that it will go to the market in good shape. Pack it ever so> green, or as ripe as I might, it would always reach the mar¬ kets in bad order. On the whole the shipments were disas¬ trous. If anybody here knows how to ship it so that the fruit will arrive at market in good order, we will be pleased to hear from him. C. A. Hasenyager —I shipped some last year. I wrapped them and packed them in half boxes, the same as we use for oranges, and they sold in Philadelphia for $3.75 per box. 1 picked them some time after Christmas, but the early ones 1 have not succeeded in marketing yet. They were very hard, and I kept some of the fruit three weeks before it was fit to eat. I wrote small cards and cautioned the dealer that they must be kept until they were soft before they were ready for the consumer. They sold well. S. S. Harvey —I have made an effort to raise a small grove, having just lately become interested in the fruit. I have set out about three acres. I have raised a few trees. I shipped some fruit to Chicago last year. They would ship round the world. As the gentleman has just said it takes two weeks for them to get fit to eat. The difficulty I found in the first shipments was that nobody knew how to eat them or when to eat them, but they are learning rapidly in the western cities.. There is quite a difference this year. I shipped my fruit in the Sinclair boxes. They went to Chicago in good condition and they brought me an average of to 2f cents apiece. I had one tree with 185 fruits one year, another 235. The trees were about lour years old, possibly five, but there was not the slightest difficulty about shipping and reaching the market in fine condition. I think that if we make a success of this fruit it will be necessary to print a slip giving direc¬ tions in regard to using it, and put in each box shipped, cer¬ tainly for a year. My commission man in Chicago tells me that the fruit men buy them to ornament their stalls. From my sales last year I was encouraged to plant, aud I think it will be a good paying fruit. I had a difficulty in growing the trees, as I found there was some insect that attacked the leaves and curled them up. I used a solution of tobacco and got rid of the insects and have had no trouble about the curl¬ ing of leaves since. G. P. Healy —I would like to ask the gentleman how many are consumed in ornamenting ? Mr. Harvey —I do not think that is a matter of any mo¬ ment. I think the consumers are rapidly learning to know the fruit. My commission man informed me that they read¬ ily sold in the California market in 20-pound peach boxes last season for $3.50 to $3.75. T. K. Godbey —I have been growing the persimmon for about seven years. I had, I think, the first fruit planted in the state. I now have about 500 trees. I have never had •any trouble in shipping them. I have only shipped a few. I have found a good market near home. Sometimes, though, I overstock the home market. Last year I did not have a very large crop and about the first of November I shipped a box {what would be an orange box) with my first shipment of or¬ anges to Chattanooga, Tenn. They were 15 days on the road. They arrived in Tennessee and sold for $2, net. That is what was equal to an orange box. I have shipped them to New York and got $3, net, about as well as I have ever done. The trees are very prolific with me, but I find this trouble: They are liable to be damaged by late frosts and if the tree is the least bit damaged the worms will get into it and kill it. When the tree gets old the worms will also get into it. Aou can depend on a tree living only a little while—not more than three or four crops will be produced. There is one worm that gets in at the roots, but the others get in through the bark, and they kill the tree. I have decided that in a commercial way the Japan persimmon will not do to depend upon. I have made some money out of them but do not set much store by them. I am afraid to trust them. It is true that the stump will always sprout up and you can regraft that and get another tree in a short while, but that will also die. My first trees were set out twelve years ago and they have gone down three times to the stumps. The bulk dre only five or six years old and many are badly affected with the worms, C. A. Bacon —I have a few of the persimmon trees and what I have have been very successful. I have three varie¬ ties. The best is acorn-shaped and very large. Some of that variety have weighed a pound. They are very fine. I am not acquainted with the insect that gets into the root. I have used kerosene for killing the borer, both in peach and persimmon trees. At Holly Hill Mr. Harris went into the persimmon business quite extensively. The last conversa¬ tion I had with him was two years ago. He said then that the twig-borer and the wood-pecker would ruin ihe fruit. I should be sorry to have this fruit cried down. It is the most perfect fruit, I think, grown on the face of the earth. It is a delicious fruit and “fit for the gods.” Lyman Phelps —The gentleman gave the name of the fruit when he said it was “fit for the gods.” The fruit is no more liable to the attacks of insects than any other trees that grow. 1 have a persimmon tree that has been fruiting for me for twelve or thirteen years. Last year I picked off fruit equal in quantity to ten boxes of oranges, and it is quite healthy still. I do not know much about Japan persimmons. I got some new varieties year before last from California that came direct from Japan. The fruit is not as difficult to grow as peaches. A. G. AyERY —I have eaten as many as six varieties of this fruit and they are of different, taste and flavor. The fruit wants to be kept from moisture. It should not be exposed to dampness, aud if it is placed in a dry place it keeps a long while ; it will keep for five weeks. It is not really nice until it gets very soft. There is no fruit equal to it, in my estima¬ tion. II. W. Marsh —I can only raise one crop of persimmons a year, but there are three crops of blackbirds, and all want a bite of each persimmon. W. H. II. Holdridge —I have raised persimmons, and I have found them very fine fruit, indeed, and I have had no trouble with my trees until the March frost of four years ago. Perhaps the fruit-growers remember that year. We did not have a show of frost from November to March, but in March we had a killing frost Ever since my trees have been be¬ having: just like Mr. Godbey’s. I have found them occasion¬ ally rotting. I have been watching other things more closely than these trees. Mr. Godbey— As to the size of persimmons I have had the fruit of the Hvakume variety weigh twenty ounces. In this respect we could not ask any more. As to the quality of the fruit, as a gentleman has said, 4 *it is fit for the gods,” if they ever eat anything. The worm getting into the bark is a very serious matter, and it might be a good idea to look and go slow, and be sure what you are doing. 0. P. Rooks —It has been suggested that a fruit should not be denounced because it proves a failure in one locality. One of the speakers seems to think that the trouble Mr. Godbev meets is caused by frost, and I think the gentleman himself believes so. I have never had my trees injured in that way. I have never noticed any worms. We have trees that are twelve years old, bearing good and successful crops. I think I have ten varieties. I think the fine variety that Mr. Bacon referred to as being acorn-shaped is the Tane-Nashi. I sent specimens to Washington nine years ago and they were fig¬ ured in the bulletins, and I think they called them the Tane- Nashi. They are certainly fine fruit, and I have grown them weighing a pound. They are among the most profitable fruits we have, meaty and good shippers. Prof. P. H. Rolfs —In reference to the sawyer: They are very thick where there are hickories. They might be pre¬ vented from attacking the persimmon trees by protecting <them from the hickories. While we have varieties of hicko¬ ries we are liable to have sawyers. G. H. Wright —I have been growing persimmons for seven or eight years, and have had no difficulty in growing them. There are lots of mocking birds usually around them. These birds seem to be fond of Idle fruit. Recently I found on two trees ot mine a scale new to me. I brought some twigs and passed them over to Prof. Weber and asked him to see what the}^ were and tell me. They multiply rapidly and I do not know but what it is possible that the scale might in the future cut quite a figure in the industry. Mr. Rooks— In the last two years the twig borer has been very numerous in the willow oaks around my place. I can gather them by the wagon load around there. I have several ornamental trees they are trimming for me and they have nearly destroyed the beauty of these trees. I always gather the wood I cut off and burn it. Prof. Weber— In regard to the scale mentioned, it is one of the soft shell scales, and I do not think it is going to be a serious thing, and it is quite easy to destroy them with any of the scale insecticides."
