"The raising of vegetables for family use only, as practiced by our forefathers in their little gardens laid out in squares to be dug and cultivated exclusively by hand, is a thing of the past, and in its stead we have the broad acres of the truck farmer, tilled with the most approved labor saving imple¬ ments. Wheel hoes for hand use, scarifiers, cultivators and harrows for horse; the seeds and commercial fertilizers are applied with similar apparatus. Thus equipped, the truck farmer takes rank among the most prosperous of our citizens. The raising of vegetables for the northern and western mar¬ ket < is becoming one of the leading industries of our state, and is largely increasing each year, and a few years will find our state almost one entire vegetable garden, sending out solid trains where now we send single cars. Our friends in the southern part of our state are particu¬ larly favored by having a climate during the winter months to be found nowhere else in the United States, where the ten- derest vegetables, like the tomato, egg plant, beans, cucum- bers, etc., grow to the greatest perfection and bring big prices. I saw only a few days ago account sales for thirty crates beans shipped from Bartow to a Chicago commission mer¬ chant that sold for $128, or an average of $4.2t per crate; it is true the railroads or express company charged $30 for freights. The commission man charged $12 for selling them, $10 perhaps covered all the other expenses. You will see the shipper netted, with all this enormous expense, $2.50 per crate. Of course this is an extra price, indeed it is, but it shows that there are people that will eat beans it matter not what they cost, and if that shipper had had 1,000 crates to ship the day he shipped those, there still would have been nearly 2,000,000 people in Chicago that had no beans for din¬ ner that day. I mention this to show you that there is no' possible chance of ever overstocking the hungry snow-bound cities of the north with fresh vegetables during the winter months. Almost every kind of vegetable is grown in our matchless climate, but for shipment to northern markets, cabbage, pota¬ toes, Bermuda onions, tomatoes, beans, peas, egg plants, squashes, and cucumbers form the bulk of the shipments in some localities. Cauliflower and celery are very successfully grown, and will in a few years be leading articles; and nearly always bring good prices. The best time to plant the different kinds of vegetables must be determined by the locality and surrounding circumstances. It would be lolly for the grower of West Florida to plant his tomatoes, egg plants and beans in December or January; if it be done during a cessation of extreme cold, the return of winter weather or an unreasonable frost may in a single night destroy the labor of many weeks (as it has done in the past few weeks). In West Florida we generally plant our cabbige, peas, beets, turnips, onions, let¬ tuce and all hardy vegetables from August 15 to December 1. Potatoes in January and February. Right here I want to- dispel the idea of not saving our own seed potatoes;, thou¬ sands of dollars are sent out of our state everv vear for seed V 1/ when we allow the best seed we can possibly get to rot in our fields. If we let our potatoes get thoroughly ripe, dig them in a dry time, remove them immediately and out in a cool, dry place* (under the house is a good place) they will keep perfectly sound. About the 15th of August bed them like you would sweet potatoes (I mean the small one about the size of a wal¬ nut). Keep the bed moist and partly shaded for ten or twelve days when they will be nicely sprouted, have your land ready and plant the whole potato. If the seasons are good by the 1st of November you will have a good crop ot potatoes. These potatoes raised in the fall are the very best seed that can be planted the following spring. They are earlier, more produc¬ tive and are superior in every respect. The potato and cabbage, like most all vegetable crops, re¬ quire the very best culture, and the soil can hardly be made too rich. The late Peter Henderson said to grow any kind of vegetable crops successfully, “you must use the right kind of fertilizer, and to put on the land just twice as much as you thought it needed, then put on as much more and you would have just about half enough,” if this applied to New York soil, I will leave the growers of Florida to be their own judges. Discussion on Vegetables. 'K H. Gaitskill— I think Mr. Moore is correct in saying that beans pay handsomely at times; for instance, one of my neighbors had a nice crop last year ready to pick when the frost took them all off. I live in a section of the country where we grow lots of vegetables, and I think I can say that they are profitable one year with another, as much so as any crops grown in Florida except pineapples; we cannot quite equal Captain Richards’ 300 per cent, a year. (See Pine¬ apples, page 35.) Last year we made some money out of cabbage. This year we sell them at 40 cents a box, and that does not pay us much. We ship seven or eight carloads a day. We have some little trouble with cabbage this year that is new to us. I think it is a little like the red spider on the pineapples. This trouble seems to be between the leaves and the ground; the stalk seems to rot. So far we do not know what it is. No great damage has resulted, though.’ I cannot say anything particularly about vegetables unless some man wants to know something of the country and what we do there. I can give more satisfaction by answering ques¬ tions. It is an everyday business with us, and we do noi see many points to talk on. We grow all kinds of vegetables, and ship plenty of them. We make lots of tomatoes. We get good money for these. We have one drawback. One of my neighbors had twenty acres in cabbage last year. He shipped 4,000 crates, and the railroads got out of those 4,000 crates just $160 an acre. He would be willing to sell his land for less money than that, and we have this drawback to contend with. While I think vegetable growing, with the proper men to grow them, is profitable, I do not think the indiscriminate growing of vegetables is advisable. C. A. Bacon —How does Mr. Gaitskill fertilize, and what does he use? I suppose he uses any fertilizer he cau get. What is the state of the soil? One of my neighbors remarked to me the other day: “I am sorry we cannot use stable man¬ ure.” I used it but it killed my plants. The manure did not kill the plants, but the worms in it did. I do not under¬ stand how to apply it to orange trees, and 1 cannot use it on vegetables, on strawberries or onions. I would like to know how to use it. I want to keep stock, and I want to save every cent I can. I think the manure should pay for one half of the feed, but I cannot use it. Mr. Gaitskill —That is rather a new idea that you cannot use stable manure. I have a small kitchen garden something larger than this room. I have three horses; I feed them well, and I put all the manure in that garden. I never had the trouble you speak of. I used good quantities of potash along with the manure, and that may have had something to do with it. As to the fertilizers we use. We use all sorts of fertilizers; some use cotton-seed meal only for tomatoes, and various kinds of fertilizers for various crops; some use one brand and some use others. As to what is best, I cannot say. In regard to Mr. Moore’s report on potatoes; I have pota¬ toes all the year round. I cover them about a foot deep with straw, and when they mature I go and dig'them. I do not find anv trouble with them. I do not even take the trouble to dig them, but let them stay in the ground until I am ready for them. 1 use stable manure on potatoes and on¬ ions successfully; at the same time, as I say, I use lots of potash, too, and use -some phosphoric acid in the shape of dissolved bone. I have more trouble with moles than with anything else; they follow after an application of cotton-seed meal, but I do not use much cotton-seed meal. Question—How do you get rid of the worms? Mr. Gaitskill—I don’t try to get rid of them. I try to get enough feed in the ground for the worms and the plants, too. I find the best thing to do is to feed the worms. Mr. Bacon —How do you apply the stable manure; for in¬ stance, to cabbage, Irish potatoes and general garden truck? Mr. Gaiaskill—B efore the ground is broken up for the crop I distribute it and plow it under, The ground is not ready for planting, though, until the manure has rotted. When the manure has rotted then it is ready for the vege¬ tables. I think potash can be used at any time; as to the quantity, as Mr. Moore said, apply “about twice as much as you think you should put on, then you have half enough. n In planting vegetables, I think you can put from 300 to 400 pounds of potash to the acre to advantage; I use potash in the form of sulphate. I do not use muriate on vegetables, es¬ pecially tomatoes. I have but little truck growing compara¬ tively, and most of the potash I get is for orange trees. 0. P. Rooks —What kind of straw do you use? Mr. Gaitskill —The straw I use on my potatoes is refuse hay. I make plenty of crab grass hay and use the refuse from the stacks in mv horse lot. 1 do not know that it is »/ any better than pine straw. I do not live in a pine straw country. It is immeteriai whether you cover the straw with dirt or not. I threw mv stable manure over the ground two inches thick, had my seed ready, put my potatoes in the fur¬ rows and just turned the ground over. I plow very shallow. I do not plant them more than one and one-half inches in the. ground. I am trying to get along without much work. Mr. Rooks —Mr. Gaitskill says the only trouble he has is with moles. I understand the moles live on the worms in the manure. Mr. Bacon —There are some points in regard to the use of stable manure that I would like to know. In the first place, can we throw stable manure on top of the ground and not lose one-half or two-thirds ,of its benefit? Will it not pass off in the air? If we bury it under the ground, and it is lull of worms, will not the ground be full of moles? Fow the ques¬ tion is, how can we use stable manure? If we throw it on top of the ground the moles do not trouble us, but it is dissi¬ pated; if we bury it, the moles and worms trouble us. We do not get much benefit from stable manure on top of the ground unless we are certain of putting it on when we know we are going to have a heavy rain. The grubs destroy my vege¬ tables, and for the last year I have quit using the stable manure tor that purpose; the radishes and cabbage were all cut up by the grubs. Lyman Phelps —There is good enough sulphate of mag¬ nesia in sulphate of potash to fix the ammonia in stable man¬ ure so that there is no waste; neither can the grubs find good living there. Moles will not find good living there, and noth¬ ing will stay where it cannot find good living. H. G. Hastings —Stable manure lias in every case been? used with sulphate of potash round my place, fn regard to raising Irish potatoes: There are people who make mistaken every year about planting, selecting and raising potatoes. They will buy northern-grown potatoes and plant those in the fall, and the result is that three-fourths of the potatoes will rot in the ground. The one way to make a successful crop is to save the seed from the spring before. Another thing I wish to remark in regard to Mr. Moore’s paper, that is, his statement of prices on beans. When this society sends out reports they should be made on a reasonable basis. That report would make a newcomer think that all beans sold for that price. We know that this is not so. Beans under proper circumstances will pay a reasonable profit on the invest¬ ment, but I say again that we must send out reports on a reasonable basis. Lyman Phelps — There is one point that should be clearly understood. We are talking as though the whole of Florida is one distinct climate, while we have four distinct climates, and if we can get things so arranged that we can get reports from one section and then another, it can be understood bet¬ ter. It is not clear to everyone now. We should have dif¬ ferent reports from different climates. The time for planting Irish potatoes varies from two to six months in different parts of the state. Mr. Hastings —Have the tomatoes been affected by blight this season as much as last? Prof. P. H. Rolfs —Black rot affected them more than any¬ thing else. It has been a great deal worse than at present. The vegetable grub is in Florida this year to the extent that it was last, but this is a little earlier than the bad reports were brought out last year. There was very little blight in Polk county. The blight is not so bad this year as it was last; we can say that as a whole. Mr. Healy —The use of stable manure on vegetables has been one of the most expensive as a fertilizer that I could use. A ton of stable manure at its best is probably worth on the land $2; that is its outside value. Its distribution is very expensive, and its action in cultivation is very bad, and it is * difficult to cultivate small vegetables where you u?e stable manure. Commercial fertilizers are more easily applied, and I will stick to them. Gf. H. Wright —There is no value to stable manure accord¬ ing to Mr. Healy. I have been using stable manure and I am growing two good crops a year. I take my ground and cover it over two or three inches with stable manure, make a fur¬ row and put my potatoes in it. The stable manure goes on a soil of fine sand on which I nise my potatoes, and I then cover the potatoes with pine straw. There are six inches of it over the top of the ground. I do not plant until the 1st of February, and about the 1st of April I put on about 200 pounds of sulphate potash to the acre. When my potatoes are ready to dig I rake off the straw, and in gathering the potatoes I leave the small ones under the ground; the large potatoes are taken from the ground. I then spread my straw as evenly as I can, and my second crop is planted. That makes my fall crop of potatoes, and if any fertilizer gives better results than my stable manure I would like to know how it is done. I consider stable manure as one of the most valuable fertilizers we have. There are a great many things in stable manure which are very valuable to the soil of Flor¬ ida. I get from my pine straw a great deal of potash, I think, and I find it valuable. As for the worms, I am not troubled by them at all. I get rid of those by putting on /finely powdered tobacco stems. Mr. Montgomery— In regard to straw for Irish potatoes: We find almost any kind of straw—pine straw, or any kind of litter tramped up a little so as to break it up—put on Irish potatoes will do. We have used broom sedge more than any¬ thing else, but we have used pine straw. No fertilizer is better than manure for oranges. ! he Best Lawn Grass For Florida. H. A. Stoddard—I want to ask a question before the liext report is taken up. I am very desirous of raising a lawn. Some recommend one kind of grass and some recommend another. I want to know if there is anyone present who is using Bermuda grass ? G. P. Healy— If there is irrigation I do not see how any¬ one can make a more beautiful lawn than with Bermuda grass. I have used Bermuda grass for this purpose ever since I had it. With irrigation it makes a beautiful lawn. There is not a time in the year when it is not green. The only trouble I ever had with Bermuda grass was when it had gone through an unusually hot summer, but with a good coating of fertilizer and plenty of water, any man can have a beautiful lawn witln Bermuda grass. Replying to questions Mr. Healy continued I have found cotton seed meal to be the best fertilizer for this grass that I have ever used. Any complete fertilizer is* as good. The use of cotton seed meal and wood ashes applied together would not do. I generally make one application of cotton seed meal in the spring of the year and later in the- season I give a coating of wood ashes. I have never used potash. I have got good result* from cotton seed meal and wood ashes. I put a heavy two-horse harrow al over my lawn late in the fall. It mak s it lumpy for a few days, but it does certainly add to the growth of it for the balance of the year. If you have irrigation you will not need this. Edward Winter—H ave you ever tried nitrate of soda? Mr. Healy—N o. I think you get in the cotton seed meal all the potash and ammonia you need. Mr. Stoddard —Do you have any trouble in keeping Ber¬ muda grass from spreading ? I do not want it spreading, all over tne place. Mr. Healy —I will answer the gentleman that I could not get the grass to spread enough. I think, though, I would be- very careful it I had a kitchen garden n» ar my lawn. You should not use the same plo w on your kitchen garden that you use on your lawn. If you u*e the Bermuda grass for mulching, of c >urse it might spread, I know tint it can bn carried in stable manure. 1 am sati>fied that Bermuda grass can be carried in stable ma >ure, for I have had it in my sweet potato patch. I have found this grass there when I could not account for it in any other way except fr om the use of stable manure. It is possible that the seed might be dropped therein some way. From my experience it can be carried in¬ stable manure. In a sweet potato patch it is not likely to spread. Bermuda grass wants fertilizer and a good deal of it. I give my grass plenty of fertilizer. Gk L. Taber—I think Mr. Healy has some very good ground to grow Bermuda grass upon. It will grow upon almost any soil. It is very hard to keep out of ground where there is any chance for it to grow. I am a little under the impression that in a few years a good many of us like the Major will want more of it. I think it is a good thing where you want it. A. H. Carey —If you allow your horse to graze on Ber¬ muda grass and you take that hoise anywhere else on your place, you will find the grass will grow. S, H. Gaitskill— I have seen in this Society muck men,. fertilizer men and stable manure men. but this is the first time that I have heard men say that Bermuda grass would not grow. In our county there is no fertilizer needed to make the grass grow. It is a fertilizer of itself and fertilizes itself. We do not need any outside htlp. We cannot get rid ot the grass when we want to. It is a singular thing to me that a man will say that this grass needs fertilizer or anything else. Itjgrows without any aid in the world. It grows all over an ash pile. Now, can anyone tell me how to kill it when I want to kill it. H. W. Marsh —I have seen Bermuda grass come out of a five-foot p-st hole. If you want it lor a lawn you have to fertilize. It is very difficult to kill it out, but it would not make a pretty lawn without fertilizer. Mr. Healy —It is not a question of its growing. It is a question of its getting green and beautiful. It will grow on my lawn without cultivation, but it will not be a thing of beauty. I have to use fertilizers to produce the good effects. F. D. Waite— I have a little spot in my yard, probably fifteen feet square. For two years I have been trying to get my lawn to cover that patch, but I have been unsuccessful. Prof. P. H. Rolfs —I would like to ask about the Texas blue grass. I have seen very fine lawns of that. Is this peculiar to our section (Columbia county). I have seen two plats that were high and dry that produced a good crop of Blue grass. Etas any one had experience with this grass ? G. W. Mellish —I have planted Texas Blue grass. During this last spring I fertilized it and it came up and is spreading more than I had any idea that it would. I have strong hopes that it is going to seed and I am certaiu of getting a lawn now. I do not know that it would grow from seeds, but I know that it will grow from roots. I have no trouble to get rid of it when I want. Prof. Rolfs —The advantage of Texas grass over Bermuda grass is that it is easily got rid of. W. M. Bennett —I was about to suggest a mode for confin¬ ing Bermuda grass to reasonable limits, but after hearing the testimony I feel a little diffident about giving my experience. I have Bermuda grass on my place. I took some planks and set them on edge and confined the grass in that way. I buried the planks about one and one-half inches in the ground. The most important matter for our consideration is how deep the grass grows. We can watch it above ground, but we can¬ not below ground. How far will it grow under ground? To exterminate Bermuda grass it is necessary to get under it. Hoeing will not do it and what will ? Mr. Healy —I would like to say in regard to the depth that it runs: I have dug Bermuda grass four feet deep and could not see that I was getting near the bottom of it. I have dug holes six feet deep and still found the Bermuda grass roots, and they were still going down. . You cannot tell how deep they grow. The deeper they do go the better fertilizer they are. Prof. Rolfs —Do you contemplate going to China? If so you can find the roots. Mr. Carey —In reference to Bermuda grass: If those who have lawns of this grass will use a highly ammoniated fer¬ tilizer and have water and keep it nicely mown, they will have no difficulty. Mr. Mellish —In attempting to exterminate this grass has anyone ever tried a heavy application of salt? Mr. Gattskill —I have tried heavy application of salt and of potash without avail. I was a little afraid to put the salt on for fear I should kill everything else I had. J. T. Stubbs —I have applied salt and boiling water and hot ashes and destroyed the Bermuda grass on the surface, but it came up again. I do not think there could be salt enough to destroy the Bermuda grass without destroying the land. Heavy applications of salt will destroy the land. Mr. Stoddard —No one has spoken of Louisiana grass. Prof. Rolfs— Louisiana grass requires moist soil, where it grows thick it becomes a carpet grass, but on rich land it will make stems. Thomas E. Richards— I have Bermuda grass on my place and I have no difficulty in keeping it in check, because I have some St. Augustine grass growing alongside of it; it will not run through this St. Augustine grass. Mr. Stoddard —I have some St. Augustine grass, but have trouble in keeping it growing. I do not know but it would answer the purpose Mr. Richards mentions. ."
